docs/spfx/web-parts/known-issues.md, before:

## Generating new client-side project

### node-gyp rebuild error:

You may get the following error when you do `yo @microsoft/sharepoint`

```
> bufferutil@1.2.1 install C:\Users\chakkaradeep\apps\helloworld-webpart\node_modules\bufferutil
> node-gyp rebuild

MSBUILD : error MSB4132: The tools version "2.0" is unrecognized. Available tools versions are "4.0".
```

While the console reports an error, it is safe to ignore this error. The dependency `bufferutil` tries to use MSBUILD to compile their tools and if not available, it uses its JavaScript tool instead, though it gives you an error.

### Phantomjs error
In Windows, you may get the following error:

```
Failed at the phantomjs-prebuilt@2.1.6 install script 'node install.js'.
```

This is because `phantomjs` is not able to find python to run the script. To fix this issue, you will need to add python directory and the python scripts directory to the PATH system environment variable and then close and reopen a new console session. For example, the python folder will be where you installed python `c:\python` and the scripts folder then will be `c:\python\scripts`

## Issues running gulp serve

### Linux/case-sensitive file systems
If you are using a linux OS, such as Ubuntu or Fedora, you might encounter the following error when you `gulp serve`:

```
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts(37,70): error TS2307: Cannot find module './odataTypes/IOdataNavigationNodeCollection'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts(38,38): error TS2307: Cannot find module './odataTypes/IOdataWeb'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(37,73): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/IPropertyPaneDropdown'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(38,38): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/PropertyPaneDropDown'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(47,39): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/PropertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField'.
[20:59:42] Error - 'typescript' sub task errored after 2.47 s 
 "TypeScript error(s) occurred."
```

This is due to a bug in the preview builds. You can use the following workaround to overcome this issue:

In `@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts`, change:

`./odataTypes/IOdataNavigationNodeCollection` => `./odataTypes/IODataNavigationNodeCollection`

`./odataTypes/IOdataWeb` => `./odataTypes/IODataWeb`

In `@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts`, change:

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/IPropertyPaneDropdown` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropdown/IPropertyPaneDropdown`

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/PropertyPaneDropDown` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropdown/PropertyPaneDropdown`

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/PropertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField`

Commit message:

Added H1 heading and preview note.

docs/spfx/web-parts/known-issues.md, after:

# Known issues with client-side web parts

>**Note:** The SharePoint Framework is currently in preview and is subject to change. SharePoint Framework client-side web parts are not currently supported for use in production environments.

This article provides information about resolving known issues that can occur when you develop client-side web parts.

## Issues generating a new client-side web part project

### node-gyp rebuild error

You may get the following error when you do `yo @microsoft/sharepoint`

```
> bufferutil@1.2.1 install C:\Users\chakkaradeep\apps\helloworld-webpart\node_modules\bufferutil
> node-gyp rebuild

MSBUILD : error MSB4132: The tools version "2.0" is unrecognized. Available tools versions are "4.0".
```

While the console reports an error, it is safe to ignore this error. The dependency `bufferutil` tries to use MSBUILD to compile their tools and if not available, it uses its JavaScript tool instead, though it gives you an error.

### Phantomjs error
In Windows, you may get the following error:

```
Failed at the phantomjs-prebuilt@2.1.6 install script 'node install.js'.
```

This is because `phantomjs` is not able to find python to run the script. To fix this issue, you will need to add python directory and the python scripts directory to the PATH system environment variable and then close and reopen a new console session. For example, the python folder will be where you installed python `c:\python` and the scripts folder then will be `c:\python\scripts`

## Issues running gulp serve

### Linux/case-sensitive file systems
If you are using a linux OS, such as Ubuntu or Fedora, you might encounter the following error when you `gulp serve`:

```
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts(37,70): error TS2307: Cannot find module './odataTypes/IOdataNavigationNodeCollection'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts(38,38): error TS2307: Cannot find module './odataTypes/IOdataWeb'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(37,73): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/IPropertyPaneDropdown'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(38,38): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/PropertyPaneDropDown'.
[20:59:42] Error - typescript - node_modules/@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts(47,39): error TS2307: Cannot find module '../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/PropertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField'.
[20:59:42] Error - 'typescript' sub task errored after 2.47 s 
 "TypeScript error(s) occurred."
```

This is due to a bug in the preview builds. You can use the following workaround to overcome this issue:

In `@microsoft/sp-client-base/lib/index.d.ts`, change:

`./odataTypes/IOdataNavigationNodeCollection` => `./odataTypes/IODataNavigationNodeCollection`

`./odataTypes/IOdataWeb` => `./odataTypes/IODataWeb`

In `@microsoft/sp-client-preview/lib/local/bundles/platform-exports.d.ts`, change:

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/IPropertyPaneDropdown` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropdown/IPropertyPaneDropdown`

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropDown/PropertyPaneDropDown` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneDropdown/PropertyPaneDropdown`

`../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/PropertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField` => `../clientSideWebParts/propertyPane/propertyPaneFields/propertyPaneTextField/PropertyPaneTextField`
