docs/spfx/web-parts/overview-client-side-web-parts.md, before:

---
title: Overview of SharePoint client-side web parts
ms.date: 09/25/2017
ms.prod: sharepoint
---


# Overview of SharePoint client-side web parts

SharePoint client-side web parts are controls that appear inside a SharePoint page but run locally in the browser. They're the building blocks of pages that appear on a SharePoint site. You can build client-side web parts using modern script development tools and the SharePoint workbench (a development test surface), and you can deploy your client-side web parts to classic web part pages in Office 365 Developer tenants.  In addition to plain JavaScript projects, you can build web parts alongside common scripting frameworks, such as AngularJS and React. For example, you can use React along with components from Office UI Fabric React to quickly create experiences based on the same components used in Office 365.

## See also

- [Overview of the SharePoint Framework](../sharepoint-framework-overview.md)
- [SharePoint Framework development tools and libraries](../tools-and-libraries.md)

Commit message:

Edit pass of SPFx docs (#1217)
* Final edit

* Final edit

* Moved some spfx sections around

* Final edit

* Fixed steps

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Resized photo

* Tweaks

* Tweaks

* Resized photo

docs/spfx/web-parts/overview-client-side-web-parts.md, after:

---
title: Overview of SharePoint client-side web parts
description: Controls that appear inside a SharePoint page but run locally in the browser; the building blocks of pages that appear on a SharePoint site. 
ms.date: 01/08/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint
---


# Overview of SharePoint client-side web parts

SharePoint client-side web parts are controls that appear inside a SharePoint page but run locally in the browser. They're the building blocks of pages that appear on a SharePoint site. 

You can build client-side web parts using modern script development tools and the SharePoint workbench (a development test surface), and you can deploy your client-side web parts to classic web part pages in Office 365 Developer tenants.  

In addition to plain JavaScript projects, you can build web parts alongside common scripting frameworks, such as AngularJS and React. For example, you can use React along with components from Office UI Fabric React to quickly create experiences based on the same components used in Office 365.

For more information, see the Getting started, Basics, and Concepts sections (in the TOC).

## See also

- [Overview of the SharePoint Framework](../sharepoint-framework-overview.md)
- [SharePoint Framework development tools and libraries](../tools-and-libraries.md)
