docs/community/community.md, before:

---
title:  SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources
description: The SharePoint Development Community (also known as the SharePoint PnP community) is an open-source initiative coordinated by SharePoint engineering. 
ms.date: 06/18/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint

---

# SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources

The SharePoint Development Community (also known as the SharePoint PnP community) is an open-source initiative coordinated by SharePoint engineering. This community controls SharePoint development documentation, samples, reusable controls, and other relevant open-source initiatives related to SharePoint development.

## Blog posts, videos, and social media

* [SharePoint Developer Blog](http://dev.office.com/blogs) - Latest developer news around SharePoint and Office 365
* [SharePoint Developer Videos](http://aka.ms/spdev-videos) - Latest guidance videos, training videos, and community call recordings
* [OfficeDev Twitter](https://twitter.com/officedev) - Official communication channel for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDevPnP Twitter](https://twitter.com/officedevpnp) - Community account for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDev Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OfficeDev/) - Official communication channel for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDevPnP Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OfficeDevPnP/) - Community account for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics


## Issues with SharePoint development

Found an issue related to SharePoint development around the APIs, documentation, or other topics? Are we missing something from the developer documentation? Please let us know!

* [SharePoint development issues list](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-docs/issues)

## Community calls

There are numerous community calls for SharePoint development, and you can choose which of them you'd like to join based on your interest and availability. Each call has live demos from SharePoint Engineering, MVPs, or other community members. 

> [!TIP]
> If you are interested in doing a live demo in any of our community calls, please reach out and we'll get you a spot for 10-15 minutes for demonstrating your SharePoint development topic(s).

| Community call | When | Description | Skype |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| [Monthly community call](https://aka.ms/sppnp-call) | Second Tuesday of each month at 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT | Monthly community call covering the latest changes in SharePoint development-related topics within the last month, including news, UserVoice updates, and community contributions | [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-call-join) |
| [Special interest group call for SharePoint Framework](https://aka.ms/spdev-spfx-call) | Bi-weekly on Thursdays at 7:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT | SharePoint Engineering updates, SharePoint Framework, PnPJS, Office 365 CLI, and reusable SPFx controls  |  [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-spfx-call-join) |
| [Special interest group call for general SharePoint development](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) | Bi-weekly on Thursdays at 7:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT | SharePoint Engineering updates, end-to-end solution designs, provisioning, PnP CSOM, and PnP PowerShell |  [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) |


> [!NOTE]
> Currently these are recurring invites until the end of June 2019. They will be renewed after that for the next 12 months.

## See also

- [SharePoint developer portal](http://aka.ms/spdev)
- [SharePoint developer samples](http://aka.ms/spdev-samples)
- [SharePoint glossary](../general-development/sharepoint-glossary.md)

Commit message:

Update community call submission guidance

docs/community/community.md, after:

---
title:  SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources
description: The SharePoint Development Community (also known as the SharePoint PnP community) is an open-source initiative coordinated by SharePoint engineering. 
ms.date: 06/18/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint

---

# SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources

The SharePoint Development Community (also known as the SharePoint PnP community) is an open-source initiative coordinated by SharePoint engineering. This community controls SharePoint development documentation, samples, reusable controls, and other relevant open-source initiatives related to SharePoint development.

## Blog posts, videos, and social media

* [SharePoint Developer Blog](http://dev.office.com/blogs) - Latest developer news around SharePoint and Office 365
* [SharePoint Developer Videos](http://aka.ms/spdev-videos) - Latest guidance videos, training videos, and community call recordings
* [OfficeDev Twitter](https://twitter.com/officedev) - Official communication channel for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDevPnP Twitter](https://twitter.com/officedevpnp) - Community account for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDev Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OfficeDev/) - Official communication channel for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics
* [OfficeDevPnP Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OfficeDevPnP/) - Community account for SharePoint and Office 365 developer topics


## Issues with SharePoint development

Found an issue related to SharePoint development around the APIs, documentation, or other topics? Are we missing something from the developer documentation? Please let us know!

* [SharePoint development issues list](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-docs/issues)

## Community calls

There are numerous community calls for SharePoint development, and you can choose which of them you'd like to join based on your interest and availability. Each call has live demos from SharePoint Engineering, MVPs, or other community members. 

> [!TIP]
> If you are interested in doing a live demo in any of our community calls, please reach out by leaving a comment on this page and we'll get you a spot for 10-15 minutes for demonstrating your SharePoint development topic(s).
> 
> **Do's & Dont's**: Interested in presenting during one of the community calls? Keep in mind these are community calls. The focus of these demos should be on learning and topics beneficial to the community. Please refrain from commercial activities such as selling or promoting products or services. Commercial activities in the community calls are not well received by the community and in certain instances may result in stopping the demo early. In your request to present, please descriptive what you intend to show to avoid any confusion. If you are not sure if what you want to present is appropriate, just ask in the submission.

| Community call | When | Description | Skype |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| [Monthly community call](https://aka.ms/sppnp-call) | Second Tuesday of each month at 8:00 AM PT / 4:00 PM GMT | Monthly community call covering the latest changes in SharePoint development-related topics within the last month, including news, UserVoice updates, and community contributions | [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-call-join) |
| [Special interest group call for SharePoint Framework](https://aka.ms/spdev-spfx-call) | Bi-weekly on Thursdays at 7:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT | SharePoint Engineering updates, SharePoint Framework, PnPJS, Office 365 CLI, and reusable SPFx controls  |  [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-spfx-call-join) |
| [Special interest group call for general SharePoint development](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call) | Bi-weekly on Thursdays at 7:00 AM PT / 3:00 PM GMT | SharePoint Engineering updates, end-to-end solution designs, provisioning, PnP CSOM, and PnP PowerShell |  [Direct Skype link to meeting](https://aka.ms/spdev-sig-call-join) |

### Interested in Presenting in a Community Call? Do's & Don'ts

Are you interested in presenting during one of the community calls listed above? We welcome demos by the community! Please feel free

> [!NOTE]
> Currently these are recurring invites until the end of June 2019. They will be renewed after that for the next 12 months.

## See also

- [SharePoint developer portal](http://aka.ms/spdev)
- [SharePoint developer samples](http://aka.ms/spdev-samples)
- [SharePoint glossary](../general-development/sharepoint-glossary.md)
