docs/community/repositories.md, before:

---
title:  SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories
description: List of different SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories and their description
ms.date: 03/29/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint
---

# SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories

There are numerous SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories, which all have different use cases. All of the SharePoint repositories are listed in the following table.

> [!TIP]
> We welcome community contributions to all of these GitHub repositories. All contributors are acknowledged in our monthly communications. Join hundreds of other SharePoint community members and help us build an even stronger community together. *Sharing is caring!*

> [!NOTE]
> You can also use the [SharePoint Developer Sample Gallery](http://aka.ms/spdev-samples) in the SharePoint Developer portal to find samples relevant to you.

## SharePoint repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [sp-dev-docs](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-docs) | Source for SharePoint dev documentation exposed at http://docs.microsoft.com/sharepoint/dev/ |
| [sp-dev-fx-webparts](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-webparts) | Samples and tutorial code around SharePoint Framework client-side web parts |
| [sp-dev-fx-extensions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-extensions) | Samples and tutorial code around SharePoint Framework extensions |
| [sp-dev-solutions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-solutions) | More polished and fine-tuned reusable solutions built with the SharePoint Framework |
| [sp-dev-list-formatting](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-list-formatting) | Various [column formatting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/declarative-customization/column-formatting) json files shared among the community |
| [sp-dev-site-scripts](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-site-scripts) | Various [Site Script and Site Design](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/declarative-customization/site-design-overview) json files shared among the community |
| [sp-dev-fx-controls-react](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-controls-react) | Reusable content controls for SharePoint Framework solutions built with React |
| [sp-dev-fx-property-controls](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-property-controls) | Reusable property pane controls for use in SharePoint Framework web parts |
| [sp-dev-gdpr-activity-hub](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-gdpr-activity-hub) | A reference solution for the business case of GDPR demonstrating an SPFx implementation with Power BI and modern sites |
| [sp-dev-build-extensions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-build-extensions) | Various build extensions (such as gulp tasks and gulp plug-ins) from the community and engineering for use in SharePoint development |
| [sp-dev-fx-vs-extension](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-vs-extension) | Visual Studio IDE extension for creating SharePoint Framework solutions in Visual Studio 2015 or 2017 |
| [sp-dev-samples](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-samples) | Samples for add-ins, webhooks, and other APIs |

## PnP repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [pnp](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp) | Main repository for SharePoint Add-ins, Microsoft Graph, and other samples |
| [pnp-sites-core](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-sites-core) | Office Dev PnP CSOM Core component - Extension component for native SharePoint Client-Side Object Model |
| [pnp-powershell](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-powershell) | Source code for [SharePoint PnP PowerShell cmdlets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/sharepoint/sharepoint-pnp/sharepoint-pnp-cmdlets?view=sharepoint-ps) |
| [pnp-provisioning-schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema) | PnP provisioning engine schema repository |
| [pnp-tools](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Tools) | Repository for tools and scripts targeted primarily for IT pros and for on-premises SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint 2016 |
| [pnp-partner-pack](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Partner-Pack) | Packaged guidance with detailed instructions about setting things up in Office 365 and Azure |
| [pnp-js-core](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-JS-Core) | Office Dev PnP Core component for JavaScript |
| [pnp-transformation](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Transformation) | Material specifically for the transformation process. Currently, includes samples around InfoPath replacement and transformation tooling from farm solutions to the add-in model |
| [pnp-js-provisioning](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-js-provisioning) | Repository for planned JavaScript provisioning library |
| [pnp-provisioning-templates](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Templates) | Source for templates available from the PnP Template Gallery at http://templates-gallery.sharepointpnp.com |
| [pnp-guidance](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Guidance) | Old repository on guidance, presentations, and articles that were partially synced to MSDN |
| [pnp-identitymodel](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-IdentityModel) | Open source replacement of Microsoft.IdentityModel.Extensions.dll |

## Other repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [pnpjs](https://github.com/pnp/pnpjs) | [PnPJS](https://pnp.github.io/pnpjs/) is a fluent JavaScript API for consuming SharePoint and Office 365 REST APIs in a type-safe way; this repository contains the library's source code |

Commit message:

Updates to align with modernization content move

docs/community/repositories.md, after:

---
title:  SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories
description: List of different SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories and their description
ms.date: 03/29/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint
---

# SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories

There are numerous SharePoint Developer GitHub repositories, which all have different use cases. All of the SharePoint repositories are listed in the following table.

> [!TIP]
> We welcome community contributions to all of these GitHub repositories. All contributors are acknowledged in our monthly communications. Join hundreds of other SharePoint community members and help us build an even stronger community together. *Sharing is caring!*

> [!NOTE]
> You can also use the [SharePoint Developer Sample Gallery](http://aka.ms/spdev-samples) in the SharePoint Developer portal to find samples relevant to you.

## SharePoint repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [sp-dev-docs](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-docs) | Source for SharePoint dev documentation exposed at http://docs.microsoft.com/sharepoint/dev/ |
| [sp-dev-fx-webparts](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-webparts) | Samples and tutorial code around SharePoint Framework client-side web parts |
| [sp-dev-fx-extensions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-extensions) | Samples and tutorial code around SharePoint Framework extensions |
| [sp-dev-modernization](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-modernization) | Solutions, tools and script to help you modernize your sites |
| [sp-dev-solutions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-solutions) | More polished and fine-tuned reusable solutions built with the SharePoint Framework |
| [sp-dev-list-formatting](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-list-formatting) | Various [column formatting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/declarative-customization/column-formatting) json files shared among the community |
| [sp-dev-site-scripts](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-site-scripts) | Various [Site Script and Site Design](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/declarative-customization/site-design-overview) json files shared among the community |
| [sp-dev-fx-controls-react](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-controls-react) | Reusable content controls for SharePoint Framework solutions built with React |
| [sp-dev-fx-property-controls](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-property-controls) | Reusable property pane controls for use in SharePoint Framework web parts |
| [sp-dev-gdpr-activity-hub](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-gdpr-activity-hub) | A reference solution for the business case of GDPR demonstrating an SPFx implementation with Power BI and modern sites |
| [sp-dev-build-extensions](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-build-extensions) | Various build extensions (such as gulp tasks and gulp plug-ins) from the community and engineering for use in SharePoint development |
| [sp-dev-fx-vs-extension](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-fx-vs-extension) | Visual Studio IDE extension for creating SharePoint Framework solutions in Visual Studio 2015 or 2017 |
| [sp-dev-samples](https://github.com/SharePoint/sp-dev-samples) | Samples for add-ins, webhooks, and other APIs |

## PnP repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [pnp](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp) | Main repository for SharePoint Add-ins, Microsoft Graph, and other samples |
| [pnp-sites-core](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-sites-core) | Office Dev PnP CSOM Core component - Extension component for native SharePoint Client-Side Object Model |
| [pnp-powershell](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-powershell) | Source code for [SharePoint PnP PowerShell cmdlets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/sharepoint/sharepoint-pnp/sharepoint-pnp-cmdlets?view=sharepoint-ps) |
| [pnp-provisioning-schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema) | PnP provisioning engine schema repository |
| [pnp-tools](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Tools) | Repository for tools and scripts targeted primarily for IT pros and for on-premises SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint 2016 |
| [pnp-partner-pack](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Partner-Pack) | Packaged guidance with detailed instructions about setting things up in Office 365 and Azure |
| [pnp-js-core](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-JS-Core) | Office Dev PnP Core component for JavaScript |
| [pnp-transformation](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Transformation) | Material specifically for the transformation process. Currently, includes samples around InfoPath replacement and transformation tooling from farm solutions to the add-in model |
| [pnp-js-provisioning](https://github.com/SharePoint/pnp-js-provisioning) | Repository for planned JavaScript provisioning library |
| [pnp-provisioning-templates](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Templates) | Source for templates available from the PnP Template Gallery at http://templates-gallery.sharepointpnp.com |
| [pnp-guidance](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Guidance) | Old repository on guidance, presentations, and articles that were partially synced to MSDN |
| [pnp-identitymodel](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-IdentityModel) | Open source replacement of Microsoft.IdentityModel.Extensions.dll |

## Other repositories

| Repository | Description |
|--------|--------|
| [pnpjs](https://github.com/pnp/pnpjs) | [PnPJS](https://pnp.github.io/pnpjs/) is a fluent JavaScript API for consuming SharePoint and Office 365 REST APIs in a type-safe way; this repository contains the library's source code |
