---
title: SharePoint Framework v1.0.0 release notes
description: Release notes for the SharePoint Framework v1.0.0 release
ms.date: 07/03/2020
ms.prod: sharepoint
localization_priority: Priority
---
# SharePoint Framework v1.0.0 release notes

Welcome to the General Availability of SPFx 1.0. It's been an exciting and interesting trip so far, and will continue to be. This is only the first release - expect a steady stream of improvements and features.

**Released:** February 22, 2017

## Upgrading projects from preview versions to v1.0.0

1. In the project's **package.json** file, identify all SPFx pre-v1 packages. For each SPFx package:
    1. Uninstall the existing pre-v1 package:

        ```console
        npm uninstall @microsoft/{spfx-package-name}
        ```

    1. Install the refreshed v1.0.0 package:

        ```console
        npm install @microsoft/{spfx-package-name}@1.0.0.0 --save --save-exact
        ```

> [!TIP]
> The [Office 365 CLI](http://aka.ms/o365cli) provides an easy step-by-step guidance to [upgrade](https://pnp.github.io/office365-cli/cmd/spfx/project/project-upgrade/) your solutions to latest SharePoint Framework version.

[!INCLUDE [pnp-o365cli](../../includes/snippets/open-source/pnp-o365cli.md)]

## New features and capabilities

You can get the updated npm packages and use them in the local workbench, and everything should be fine. However, the rollout of the code to the servers will be done in stages over the course of several days. By sometime next week 100% of the farms should have it. We do this to monitor the rollout and make sure we don't have any issues.

### Will I get to use SPFX and client side web parts now?

There are really two different things at play. One is the code being available on all the farms, the second is the feature being enabled for a given tenant.

Similar to how the code rolls out across the farms, the feature will be rolled out to tenants. We'll start with the same first-release tenants (not users, tenants) that have SPFX today. Over the course of a couple of weeks, it should roll to all tenants.

You'll know if it has reached a given tenant because uploading the package into the app catalog will say it's valid. Even tenants that can't upload packages can still try out SPFx, they'll just be limited to the local and hosted workbench (found at **_layouts/15/workbench.aspx**).

## Changes in this release

- There are only a few changes in the actual SharePoint Framework code. The bulk of our work between RC0 and GA had to do with stability and future-proofing. It is our explicit goal that the parts you create today should continue to work for years to come. But fixes made to the underlying service continue to be supplied without issues, we don't have 7 different minor and patch versions of framework code loaded, and so on. There's still some work to do in this area for some components - we'll get to those.
- The biggest change to the code itself is that we incorporated the strict null checks flag into SPFX, meaning that you can also enable this flag in your projects. It changed the API slightly, but should only be noticed if you enable strict null checks yourself.
- The other noticeable changes are in the default code that is generated by running the Yeoman generator. v1.0.0 is the version of the packages. We now reference **\@types/\*** with a strict version (no more lodash errors).
- We have feature XML support (along with upgrade). This can be used to provision needed fields, content types and lists for the web part in “elevated” mode. We'll write up some posts on this in more detail.
- We've finalized the serialization format on classic pages. You should delete and re-add your web parts. We'll support the old serialization format for a short while, then it will stop working.
- `require('./config/docs.config.html');` now returns object in GA rather than string like RC0

## Known issues

We have temporarily removed **office-ui-fabric-react** from the react template until we can get the package moved to a future-proof form. We expect that to take a couple of weeks.
