docs/solution-guidance/localization-solutions-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md, before:

---
title: Localization solutions for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# Localization solutions for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online

Localize content in your SharePoint site.

_**Applies to:** SharePoint 2013 | SharePoint Add-ins | SharePoint Online_

The code samples described in this section show you how to use provider-hosted add-ins to localize site features and UI elements in your SharePoint solution. The articles in this section will help you get started with and walk you through the primary scenarios that each sample illustrates. 

## In this section

|**Article**|**Sample**|**Shows you how to...**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|[Use localization features in Office 365 sample add-in](Use-localization-features-in-Office-365-sample-app.md)|[Core.CreateContentTypes](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.CreateContentTypes)|Use the localization features in Office 365 to provide localized values for SharePoint sites, lists, content types, and site columns. |
|[Localize UI elements sample SharePoint Add-in](Localize-UI-elements-sample-app-for-SharePoint.md)|[Core.JavaScriptCustomization](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Scenarios/Core.JavaScriptCustomization)|Localize SharePoint UI elements by using JavaScript to replace the text value of a UI element value with a translated text value loaded from a JavaScript resource file. |

## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

- [Office 365 development patterns and practices solution guidance](Office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md)
    
- [Patterns and Practices developer center](http://dev.office.com/patterns-and-practices)
    
- [Office 365 Development Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)

Commit message:

Edit complete for Solution guidance > Branding section (#1762)
* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Tweaks

* Edit pass

* Tweaks to headings

* Added What's New to TOC

* Added See also link

* Edit pass

* Fixed link

* Edit of Metadata page

* Changed Web Part to web part

* Changed Web Parts to web parts where applicable

* More Web Part updates

* Edit pass of Metadata page, continuing

* Fixes to table 1

* Adjusted spacing in Table 1

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Changed "web page" to "webpage" and "web site" to "website"

Per Microsoft Writing Style Guide guidance
https://worldready.cloudapp.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=36431

* Edit pass

* Edit of Loc topics

* Fixes

* Edit composed looks page and See also

* Edit pass on composed looks

* Updated file name

* update to OD4B page

* Edit pass of OD4B topic

* Edit pass of Branding pages

* Finish edit pass of Branding section

* Fixes

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on UX section

* Edit pass of UX section

* Edit of Site Provisioning section

docs/solution-guidance/localization-solutions-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md, after:

---
title: Localization solutions for SharePoint and SharePoint Online
description: Localize content in your SharePoint site.
ms.date: 4/24/2018
---

# Localization solutions for SharePoint and SharePoint Online

The code samples described in this section show you how to use provider-hosted add-ins to localize site features and UI elements in your SharePoint solution. The articles in this section will help you get started with and walk you through the primary scenarios that each sample illustrates. 

<br/>

|Article|Sample|Shows you how to...|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|[Use localization features in Office 365 sample add-in](use-localization-features-in-office-365-sample-app.md)|[Core.CreateContentTypes](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.CreateContentTypes)|Use the localization features in Office 365 to provide localized values for SharePoint sites, lists, content types, and site columns. |
|[Localize UI elements sample SharePoint Add-in](localize-ui-elements-sample-app-for-sharepoint.md)|[Core.JavaScriptCustomization](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.JavaScriptCustomization)|Localize SharePoint UI elements by using JavaScript to replace the text value of a UI element value with a translated text value loaded from a JavaScript resource file. |

## See also
  
- [SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources](../community/community.md) 
- [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)
- [Office 365 development and SharePoint PnP solution guidance](office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md)
