docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-permissions.md, before:

---
title: Permission model in OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# Permission model in OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview

> **Important:** OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

The permission model in a OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview tenant is the same as that for a single geo tenant.

A Multi-Geo tenant has a single Azure AD environment distributed across all all geo locations. This Azure AD environment includes: 

- All users and groups - If you grant a user or group permissions, these permissions apply to all geo locations.
- All security principals - Whether you register your application in Azure AD using one of the Azure Portals, or via Azure Access Control Services (appregnew.aspx in SharePoint), the permissions granted apply to all geo locations.

The following image shows a Multi-Geo tenant with:

- A default geo location in North America
- A satellite geo location in Europe
- A satellite geo location in Asia

This tenant has one distributed Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) environment that includes all the users, groups, and permissions. The central Azure AD instance is distributed to all the geo locations. 

![A world map showing a default geo location in North America, and satellite geo locations in Europe and Asia, with user accounts and groups stored in AAD](media/multigeo/multigeopermissions_intro.png)

To configure your applications for Multi-Geo tenants in Azure AD, see [Set up a Multi-Geo sample application](multigeo-sampleapplicationsetup.md).

Commit message:

Edit pass on Multi-Geo topics (#1764)
* Edit pass

Replaced IMPORTANT note, added link to parent topic, updated metadata

* Edit pass

* Global search-replace

SharePoint add-in model > SharePoint Add-in model
IMPORTANT note about Azure Access Control - edited

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on Sample doc

* Updated links on Intro page

* Added missing topics in Multi-Geo

* Fixes

* Final fixes

docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-permissions.md, after:

---
title: Permission model in a Multi-Geo tenant
description: The permission model in a OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview tenant is the same as that for a single geo tenant.
ms.date: 4/27/2018
---

# Permission model in a Multi-Geo tenant

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

The permission model in a OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview tenant is the same as that for a single geo tenant.

A Multi-Geo tenant has a single Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) environment distributed across all geo locations. This Azure AD environment includes: 

- All users and groups. If you grant a user or group permissions, these permissions apply to all geo locations.
- All security principals. Whether you register your application in Azure AD by using one of the Azure portals, or via Azure Access Control Services (appregnew.aspx in SharePoint), the permissions granted apply to all geo locations.

The following image shows a Multi-Geo tenant with:

- A default geo location in North America.
- A satellite geo location in Europe.
- A satellite geo location in Asia.

This tenant has one distributed Azure AD environment that includes all the users, groups, and permissions. The central Azure AD instance is distributed to all the geo locations. 

<br/>

![A world map showing a default geo location in North America, and satellite geo locations in Europe and Asia, with user accounts and groups stored in Azure AD](media/multigeo/multigeopermissions_intro.png)

To configure your applications for Multi-Geo tenants in Azure AD, see [Set up a Multi-Geo sample application](multigeo-sampleapplicationsetup.md).

## See also

- [OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview](multigeo-introduction.md)
