docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-apps.md, before:

---
title: Managing apps in a SharePoint Multi-Geo tenant
ms.date: 11/08/2017
---
# Managing apps in a SharePoint Multi-Geo tenant

> **Important:** OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

In a Multi-Geo tenant, you'll have an app catalog per geo location which is something to take in account if you want to deploy your apps across all geo locations.

## Where do I need to deploy my apps in a Multi-Geo tenant?
Before talking about deploying apps let's first define what's meant with apps in this article: all apps that you deploy by first adding them to your tenant app catalog are in scope of this guidance, so that includes SharePoint Add-In's (so .app files) but also SharePoint Framework Apps and Extensions (the .sppkg files). In a Multi-Geo tenant you'll have one app catalog site per geo location as show below:

![World map showing app catalog in North America and satellite locations in Europe and Asia, with app catalog](media/multigeo/multigeoapps_intro.png)

A consequence of this architecture is that you'll need to deploy your app in **all** app catalogs if you want your app to be available for all sites, regardless of the geo location the site is hosted in. To realize this you have 2 options:
- Deploy your app manually in each of the app catalog sites
- Use the ALM API's to automate the deployment of your apps: using these API's you can write code that consistently deploys/upgrades your apps in all the geo locations of your Multi-Geo tenant.


## See also

- [SharePoint Apps ALM API's]()
- [Deploying and installing SharePoint Add-ins: methods and options](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/sp-add-ins/deploying-and-installing-sharepoint-add-ins-methods-and-options)
- [Hosting client-side web part from Office 365 CDN](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/web-parts/get-started/hosting-webpart-from-office-365-cdn)
- [Host extension from Office 365 CDN](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/extensions/get-started/hosting-extension-from-office365-cdn)

Commit message:

Edit pass on Multi-Geo topics (#1764)
* Edit pass

Replaced IMPORTANT note, added link to parent topic, updated metadata

* Edit pass

* Global search-replace

SharePoint add-in model > SharePoint Add-in model
IMPORTANT note about Azure Access Control - edited

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on Sample doc

* Updated links on Intro page

* Added missing topics in Multi-Geo

* Fixes

* Final fixes

docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-apps.md, after:

---
title: Manage apps and add-ins in a Multi-Geo tenant
description: In a Multi-Geo tenant, you have an app catalog per geo location, which is something to consider if you want to deploy your apps across all geo locations.
ms.date: 4/27/2018
---

# Manage apps and add-ins in a Multi-Geo tenant

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

In a Multi-Geo tenant, you have an app catalog per geo location, which is something to consider if you want to deploy your apps across all geo locations.

By "app", we mean all apps that you deploy by first adding them to your tenant app catalog. All such apps are in scope of this guidance, including SharePoint Add-Ins (.app files) and SharePoint Framework apps and extensions (.sppkg files). 

In a Multi-Geo tenant, you have one app catalog site per geo location, as shown in the following diagram.

![World map showing app catalogs in North America and satellite locations in Europe and Asia](media/multigeo/multigeoapps_intro.png)

A consequence of this architecture is that you must deploy your app in **all** app catalogs if you want your app to be available for all sites, regardless of the geo location the site is hosted in. 

To do this, you have two options:

- Deploy your app manually in each of the app catalog sites. 

- Use the [ALM APIs](../apis/alm-api-for-spfx-add-ins.md) to automate the deployment of your apps. By using these APIs, you can write code that consistently deploys/upgrades your apps in all the geo locations of your Multi-Geo tenant.


## See also

- [Deploying and installing SharePoint Add-ins: methods and options](../sp-add-ins/deploying-and-installing-sharepoint-add-ins-methods-and-options.md)
- [Host your client-side web part from Office 365 CDN](../spfx/web-parts/get-started/hosting-webpart-from-office-365-cdn.md)
- [Host extension from Office 365 CDN](../spfx/extensions/get-started/hosting-extension-from-office365-cdn.md) 
- [OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview](multigeo-introduction.md)
