docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-onedrive.md, before:

---
title: Using OneDrive for Business in a Multi-Geo tenant
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# Using OneDrive for Business in a Multi-Geo tenant

> **Important:** OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

Accessing a user's OneDrive for Business site, also known as personal site or my site, is a common scenario in custom applications. This article describes how to work with OneDrive for Business sites in a Multi-Geo tenant.

You can use one of several APIs to access a OneDrive for Business site:

- Microsoft Graph (preferred)
- SharePoint CSOM 
- SharePoint REST API


## Read OneDrive for Business files using Microsoft Graph
When you use Microsoft Graph to read a OneDrive for Business file, you don't have to know where a user's OneDrive site is located. When you request the drive, as shown in the following examples, you'll get the files you need. 

```
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/bert@contoso.onmicrosoft.com/drive/root/children


GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/me/drive/root/children
```

## Get the location of a user's OneDrive for Business site using Microsoft Graph
The following examples show how to get the location of a OneDrive for Business site using the Microsoft Graph API.

```
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/admin@a830edad9050849524e17052212.onmicrosoft.com/mySite


GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/me/mySite
```

To learn more, see the [MultiGeo.UserProfileUpdates](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/MultiGeo.UserProfileUpdates) sample.

## Get the location of a user's OneDrive for Business site using CSOM and REST
The following example shows a REST-based query to get the location of an OneDrive for Business site.

```
GET https://contoso.sharepoint.com/_api/SP.UserProfiles.PeopleManager/GetPropertiesFor(accountName=@v)/PersonalUrl?%40v=%27i%3A0%23.f%7Cmembership%7Cbert%40contoso.onmicrosoft.com%27
```

If you're using C#, you can use CSOM to get the location of an OneDrive for Business site.

```csharp
public string GetUserPersonalUrlCSOM(ClientContext ctx, string userPrincipalName)
{
    string result = null;

    PeopleManager peopleManager = new PeopleManager(ctx);
    var userProperties = peopleManager.GetPropertiesFor(userPrincipalName);
    this.clientContext.ExecuteQuery();
    result = userProperties.PersonalUrl;

    return result;
}
```

## Read OneDrive for Business files using CSOM and REST

Reading files using CSOM is identical to reading files on other site collections, a OneDrive for Business site is a regular SharePoint site collection with a document library containing files. See the resources section for samples on using CSOM and REST to upload files.

## See also

- [Reading files using the Microsoft Graph API](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/api-reference/v1.0/api/item_list_children)
- [Uploading files using REST](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.RestFileUpload)
- [File Upload CSOM SharePoint Add-in](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.FileUpload)
- [Large file upload with CSOM](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.LargeFileUpload)

Commit message:

Edit pass on Multi-Geo topics (#1764)
* Edit pass

Replaced IMPORTANT note, added link to parent topic, updated metadata

* Edit pass

* Global search-replace

SharePoint add-in model > SharePoint Add-in model
IMPORTANT note about Azure Access Control - edited

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on Sample doc

* Updated links on Intro page

* Added missing topics in Multi-Geo

* Fixes

* Final fixes

docs/solution-guidance/multigeo-onedrive.md, after:

---
title: Access OneDrive for Business in a Multi-Geo tenant
description: Accessing a user's OneDrive for Business site, also known as a personal site or my site, is a common scenario in custom applications.
ms.date: 4/27/2018
---

# Access OneDrive for Business in a Multi-Geo tenant

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo is currently in preview and is subject to change.

Accessing a user's OneDrive for Business site, also known as a personal site or my site, is a common scenario in custom applications. This article describes how to work with OneDrive for Business sites in a Multi-Geo tenant.

You can use one of several APIs to access a OneDrive for Business site:

- Microsoft Graph API (preferred)
- SharePoint CSOM API
- SharePoint REST API


## Read OneDrive for Business files using Microsoft Graph

When you use Microsoft Graph to read a OneDrive for Business file, you don't have to know where a user's OneDrive site is located. When you request the drive, as shown in the following examples, you'll get the files you need. 

```
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/bert@contoso.onmicrosoft.com/drive/root/children

GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/me/drive/root/children
```

## Read OneDrive for Business files using CSOM and REST

Reading files by using CSOM is identical to reading files on other site collections; a OneDrive for Business site is a regular SharePoint site collection with a document library containing files. See the **See also** section for samples for using CSOM and REST to upload files.

## Get the location of a user's OneDrive for Business site using Microsoft Graph

The following examples show how to get the location of a OneDrive for Business site by using the Microsoft Graph API.

```
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/admin@a830edad9050849524e17052212.onmicrosoft.com/mySite

GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/users/me/mySite
```

For more information, see the [MultiGeo.UserProfileUpdates](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/MultiGeo.UserProfileUpdates) sample.

## Get the location of a user's OneDrive for Business site using CSOM and REST

The following example shows a REST-based query to get the location of a OneDrive for Business site.

```
GET https://contoso.sharepoint.com/_api/SP.UserProfiles.PeopleManager/GetPropertiesFor(accountName=@v)/PersonalUrl?%40v=%27i%3A0%23.f%7Cmembership%7Cbert%40contoso.onmicrosoft.com%27
```

If you're using C#, you can use CSOM to get the location of a OneDrive for Business site.

```csharp
public string GetUserPersonalUrlCSOM(ClientContext ctx, string userPrincipalName)
{
    string result = null;

    PeopleManager peopleManager = new PeopleManager(ctx);
    var userProperties = peopleManager.GetPropertiesFor(userPrincipalName);
    this.clientContext.ExecuteQuery();
    result = userProperties.PersonalUrl;

    return result;
}
```



## See also

- [Reading files using the Microsoft Graph API](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/api-reference/v1.0/api/item_list_children)
- [Uploading files using REST](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.RestFileUpload)
- [File upload CSOM SharePoint Add-in](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.FileUpload)
- [Large file upload with CSOM](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/master/Samples/Core.LargeFileUpload)
- [OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo Preview](multigeo-introduction.md)
