docs/solution-guidance/Office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md, before:

---
title: Office 365 development and SharePoint patterns and practices solution guidance
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# Solution guidance

This section provides more insights and details based on scenarios and functional requirements. 

_**Applies to:** Office 365 | SharePoint 2016 | SharePoint 2013 | SharePoint Online_

## In this section

|**Read this content**|**If you want to...**|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Modernizing your classic SharePoint sites](../transform/modernize-classic-sites.md)|Transform your classic SharePoint sites into modern group connected sites.|
|[Branding and site provisioning](Branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-SharePoint.md)|Use SharePoint Add-ins to provision and manage SharePoint site branding.|
|[Customizing the "modern" experiences in SharePoint Online](modern-experience-customizations.md)|Customization options with SharePoint Online "modern" experiences.|
|[Introduction to OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo scenarios](multigeo-introduction.md)|The OneDrive and SharePoint Online (ODSP) Multi-Geo Preview allows multinational corporations (MNCs) that are part of the preview and have one or more geographical locations to expand their Office 365 ODSP tenancy to satisfy data residency requirements.|
|[Composite business add-ins](Composite-buisness-apps-for-SharePoint.md)|Use composite business apps to integrate your SharePoint solutions with your business processes and technologies. |
|[ECM solutions](Enterprise-Content-Management-solutions-for-SharePoint-2013-and-SharePoint-Online.md)|Perform common ECM tasks such as setting site policies, uploading files, synchronizing term groups, and more.|
|[Localization solutions](localization-solutions-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md)|Localize your SharePoint site contents and UI text.|
|[Search solutions](search-solutions-in-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md)|Find out about the SharePoint search architecture, search APIs, and search add-ins.|
|[Security and Performance](security-and-performance.md)|Shows you how to improve the security and performance of your SharePoint sites with OAuth, support for Germany, China and US Government environments, cross-domain images, elevated privileges, and external sharing.|
|[SharePoint Add-In Recipes](sharepoint-add-in-recipes.md)|Find a list of SharePoint add-in recipes.|
|[Transform farm solutions to the SharePoint add-in model](Transform-farm-solutions-to-the-SharePoint-app-model.md)|Convert your farm solutions to the SharePoint add-in model.|
|[Sandbox solution transformation guidance](sandbox-solution-transformation-guidance.md)|Convert your sandbox solutions to add-in model or alternative solutions.|
|[User Profile Solutions](user-profile-solutions-for-sharepoint.md)|Work with SharePoint user profile data.|
|[Deploying your SharePoint add-ins](deploying-your-sharepoint-add-ins.md)|Shows how to deploy your SharePoint add-ins.|
|[PnP remote provisioning](pnp-remote-provisioning.md)|Learn about remote provisioning for your Office 365 and SharePoint Online site collections using features of the add-in model.|
|[PnP remote timer job framework](pnp-remote-timer-job-framework.md)|Describes timer jobs which are background tasks that operate on your SharePoint sites.|


## See also

- [Office 365 Development Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)   
- [Developing on the Office 365 platform](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/office365/howto/platform-development-overview)
- [SharePoint glossary](../general-development/sharepoint-glossary.md)

Commit message:

Edit complete for Solution guidance > Branding section (#1762)
* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Tweaks

* Edit pass

* Tweaks to headings

* Added What's New to TOC

* Added See also link

* Edit pass

* Fixed link

* Edit of Metadata page

* Changed Web Part to web part

* Changed Web Parts to web parts where applicable

* More Web Part updates

* Edit pass of Metadata page, continuing

* Fixes to table 1

* Adjusted spacing in Table 1

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Changed "web page" to "webpage" and "web site" to "website"

Per Microsoft Writing Style Guide guidance
https://worldready.cloudapp.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=36431

* Edit pass

* Edit of Loc topics

* Fixes

* Edit composed looks page and See also

* Edit pass on composed looks

* Updated file name

* update to OD4B page

* Edit pass of OD4B topic

* Edit pass of Branding pages

* Finish edit pass of Branding section

* Fixes

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on UX section

* Edit pass of UX section

* Edit of Site Provisioning section

docs/solution-guidance/Office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md, after:

---
title: Office 365 development and SharePoint patterns and practices (PnP) solution guidance
description: Provides insights and details based on scenarios and functional requirements.
ms.date: 4/23/2018
---

# Office 365 development and SharePoint PnP solution guidance

Solution guidance, including insights and details based on scenarios and functional requirements, for Office 365 development and SharePoint patterns and practices (PnP). 

<br/>

|Read this content|If you want to...|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Modernizing your classic SharePoint sites](../transform/modernize-classic-sites.md)|Transform your classic SharePoint sites into modern group-connected sites.|
|[Branding and site provisioning](Branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-SharePoint.md)|Use SharePoint Add-ins to provision and manage SharePoint site branding.|
|[Customizing the "modern" experiences in SharePoint Online](modern-experience-customizations.md)|Customize with SharePoint Online "modern" experiences.|
|[OneDrive and SharePoint Online Multi-Geo scenarios](multigeo-introduction.md)| Preview the OneDrive and SharePoint Online (ODSP) Multi-Geo tenant, which allows multinational corporations (MNCs) that are part of the preview and have one or more geographical locations to expand their Office 365 ODSP tenancy to satisfy data residency requirements.|
|[Building SharePoint Online portals](portal-overview.md) |Factor in SharePoint Online specific performance considerations when developing your new portal. |
|[Composite business add-ins](composite-business-apps-for-sharepoint.md)|Use composite business add-ins to integrate your SharePoint solutions with your business processes and technologies. |
|[ECM solutions](Enterprise-Content-Management-solutions-for-SharePoint-2013-and-SharePoint-Online.md)|Perform common ECM tasks such as setting site policies, uploading files, synchronizing term groups, and more.|
|[Localization solutions](localization-solutions-for-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md)|Localize your SharePoint site contents and UI text.|
|[Search solutions](search-solutions-in-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md)|Find out about the SharePoint search architecture, search APIs, and search add-ins.|
|[Security and performance](security-and-performance.md)|Improve the security and performance of your SharePoint sites with OAuth, support for Germany, China and US Government environments, cross-domain images, elevated privileges, and external sharing.|
|[SharePoint Add-in recipes](sharepoint-add-in-recipes.md)|Find a list of SharePoint Add-in recipes.|
|[Transform farm solutions to the SharePoint Add-in model](Transform-farm-solutions-to-the-SharePoint-app-model.md)|Convert your farm solutions to the SharePoint Add-in model.|
|[Sandbox solution transformation guidance](sandbox-solution-transformation-guidance.md)|Convert your sandbox solutions to the add-in model or alternative solutions.|
|[User profile solutions](user-profile-solutions-for-sharepoint.md)|Work with SharePoint user profile data.|
|[Deploying your SharePoint Add-ins](deploying-your-sharepoint-add-ins.md)|Deploy your SharePoint Add-ins.|
|[PnP remote provisioning](pnp-remote-provisioning.md)|Learn about remote provisioning for your Office 365 and SharePoint Online site collections by using features of the add-in model.|
|[PnP remote timer job framework](pnp-remote-timer-job-framework.md)|Learn about timer jobs, which are background tasks that operate on your SharePoint sites.|


## See also

- [SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources](../community/community.md)  
- [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)  
- [Developing on the Office 365 platform](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/office365/howto/platform-development-overview)
- [SharePoint glossary](../general-development/sharepoint-glossary.md)
