docs/solution-guidance/pnp-remote-provisioning.md, before:

---
title: PnP remote provisioning
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# PnP remote provisioning

Learn about remote provisioning for your Office 365 and SharePoint Online site collections using features of the add-in model. Note that remote provisioning is also supported on SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint 2016.

Microsoft SharePoint 2013 and the new Add-in model allow you to use remote provisioning for your Office 365 and SharePoint Online site collections, as well as for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint 2016. You can easily create a provisioning template, and then apply and reuse the template by using simple Windows PowerShell scripts or C# code.

> [!Video https://www.youtube.com/embed/kRbrrGCfUtE]

## PnP remote provisioning resources

|**Article**|**Shows you how to**|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Introducing the PnP provisioning engine](Introducing-the-PnP-Provisioning-Engine.md)| A short white paper that introduces the PnP provisioning engine.|
|[Getting started with PnP provisioning engine in .NET](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kRbrrGCfUtE)|A YouTube audio/video introduction to the PnP provisioning engine delivered by Paolo Pialorsi.|
|[Introducing the PnP provisioning engine](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Guidance/blob/551b9f6a66cf94058ba5497e310d519647afb20c/articles/Introducing-the-PnP-Provisioning-Engine.md)|A GitHub article that provides a detailed introduction to the PnP provisioning engine.|
|[OfficeDevPnP.Core ](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Sites-Core/tree/master/Core)|The Office 365 Developer PnP Core Component is an extension that encapsulates commonly used remote CSOM/REST operations as reusable extension methods to support CSOM provisioning objects.|
|[Inside the PnP provisioning schema](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/OfficeDevPnP/Deep-dive-to-PnP-provisioning-engine-schema)|A Microsoft Channel 9 audio/video introduction to the PnP provisioning schema delivered by Paolo Pialorsi.|

## See also

- [Office 365 development and SharePoint PnP solution guidance](office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md)

Commit message:

Continued edit pass on Solutions guidance docs (#1835)
* Edit pass on Sandbox topics

* Edit pass - Feature receivers

* Edit pass InfoPath

* Fixes

* Initial edit pass User profile

* Updated titles

* Fixed titles in Transform sections

* Fixes

* Fixes

* Initial updates User profiles

* Edit of Read or Update

* Fixes

* Edit pass Migrate

* Fixes

* Initial edit of Upload

* Edit Upload

* Edit Personalize

* Resized image in Personalize

* TOC - User profile section

* Edit pass on Bulk update topic

* Fixes

* Edit pass on Bulk Update

* Edit pass Bulk update

* Finish Bulk Update topic

* Fixes

* Fixes

* Initial edit pass for Deploy Add-ins

* Edit pass Deploy sites

* Edit Deploy Add-ins section

* Changed Portal to portal, updated link

[Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/)

* Finish edit pass on Deploy Add-ins section

* Changed Management Portal to portal,  updated link

[Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com)

* Initial edit pass PnP remote provisioning

* Edit pass on PnP Provisioning Engine topic

* Attempt to push build

* Edit pass of PnP framework

* Updated "storage" capitalization per style guide

* Edit pass on Engine & Core topic

* Edit of PnP sample

* Fixes

* Initial edits on Timer Job topics

* Finished Timer Job Framework topic

* Fixes to TJ framework topic

* Edit pass of remote timer jobs

* Initial edit of WebJobs topic

* Edit of WebJobs topic

* Minor fixes to Modern Experience topics

* Edited Modern Provisioning doc

* Added site classification topic to master page

docs/solution-guidance/pnp-remote-provisioning.md, after:

---
title: PnP remote provisioning
description: Remote provisioning for your Office 365, SharePoint, and SharePoint Online site collections using features of the add-in model.
ms.date: 5/9/2018
---

# PnP remote provisioning

Microsoft SharePoint and the new SharePoint Add-in model allow you to use remote provisioning for your Office 365, SharePoint, and SharePoint Online site collections. You can easily create a provisioning template, and then apply and reuse the template by using simple Windows PowerShell scripts or C# code.

See the following audio/video introduction to the PnP provisioning engine delivered by Paolo Pialorsi.

<br/>

> [!Video https://www.youtube.com/embed/kRbrrGCfUtE]

## PnP remote provisioning resources

|Article|Description|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Introducing the PnP provisioning engine](introducing-the-pnp-provisioning-engine.md)| Introduces the PnP provisioning engine, which was released in April 2015 within the OfficeDev PnP project, and which is updated on a monthly basis in alignment with the release schedule of the Office Dev PnP Core Library.|
|[PnP provisioning framework](pnp-provisioning-framework.md)| Get a high-level overview of remote provisioning features available for your Office 365 and SharePoint Online site collections as well as an understanding about why creating sandboxed and full-trust solutions is no longer recommended.| 
|[PnP provisioning engine and the Core library](pnp-provisioning-engine-and-the-core-library.md)| Take a high-level look at the remote provisioning process, including a closer look at the OfficeDevPnP.Core library.|
|[PnP provisioning schema](pnp-provisioning-schema.md)| How to use the XML schema to serialize and save your provisioning templates.|
|[Provisioning console application sample](provisioning-console-application-sample.md)| Learn the fundamentals of using the PnP provisioning engine to create and persist, and then apply provisioning templates to new SharePoint site collections.|
|[OfficeDevPnP.Core ](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Sites-Core/tree/master/Core)|The Office 365 Developer PnP Core Component is an extension that encapsulates commonly used remote CSOM/REST operations as reusable extension methods to support CSOM provisioning objects.|
|[Inside the PnP provisioning schema (video)](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/OfficeDevPnP/Deep-dive-to-PnP-provisioning-engine-schema)|A Microsoft Channel 9 audio/video introduction to the PnP provisioning schema delivered by Paolo Pialorsi.|

## See also

- [Office 365 development and SharePoint PnP solution guidance](office-365-development-patterns-and-practices-solution-guidance.md)
