docs/solution-guidance/pnp-provisioning-schema.md, before:

---
title: PnP provisioning schema
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# PnP provisioning schema

As you learned in our [PnP provisioning framework](pnp-provisioning-framework.md) and elsewhere, the format for provisioning templates has been decoupled from the persistence format so that you can use any format you prefer. Nevertheless, because using the XML provisioning schema for persisting templates is such a common scenario, we're providing some additional information about how to use the XML schema to serialize and save your provisioning templates.

**Important:** While the provisioning schema obviously supports XML serialization of provisioning templates, it also provides the structure for serialization in JSON format. More generally, the schema provides the model for defining provisioning structures.

## Provisioning schema resources

You can get the provisioning schema, along with its supporting files, on GitHub: [PnP-Provisioning-Schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema)

There is a 20-minute Channel 9 video that discusses the provisioning schema: [Deep dive to PnP provisioning engine schema](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/OfficeDevPnP/Deep-dive-to-PnP-provisioning-engine-schema).

Sample schemas are available on: [GitHub at PnP-Provisioning-Schema/Samples](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema/tree/master/Samples).

The code block below displays the schema's root element and direct child elements of the root. You can find provisioning schema documentation on GitHub: [PnP provisioning schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema).

```
<pnp:ProvisioningTemplate
           xmlns:pnp="http://schemas.dev.office.com/PnP/2015/08/ProvisioningSchema"
           ID="xsd:ID"
           Version="xsd:decimal"
           ImagePreviewUrl="xsd:string"
           DisplayName="xsd:string"
           Description="xsd:string">
   <pnp:Properties />
   <pnp:SitePolicy />
   <pnp:RegionalSettings />
   <pnp:SupportedUILanguages />
   <pnp:AuditSettings />
   <pnp:PropertyBagEntries />
   <pnp:Security />
   <pnp:SiteFields />
   <pnp:ContentTypes />
   <pnp:Lists />
   <pnp:Features />
   <pnp:CustomActions />
   <pnp:Files />
   <pnp:Pages />
   <pnp:TermGroups />
   <pnp:ComposedLook />
   <pnp:Workflows />
   <pnp:SearchSettings />
   <pnp:Publishing />
   <pnp:AddIns />
   <pnp:Providers />
</pnp:ProvisioningTemplate>
```

## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

- [Deep dive to PnP provisioning engine schema](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/OfficeDevPnP/Deep-dive-to-PnP-provisioning-engine-schema)
    
- [PnP provisioning schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema)
    
- [GitHub at PnP-Provisioning-Schema/Samples](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema/tree/master/Samples)

Commit message:

Continued edit pass on Solutions guidance docs (#1835)
* Edit pass on Sandbox topics

* Edit pass - Feature receivers

* Edit pass InfoPath

* Fixes

* Initial edit pass User profile

* Updated titles

* Fixed titles in Transform sections

* Fixes

* Fixes

* Initial updates User profiles

* Edit of Read or Update

* Fixes

* Edit pass Migrate

* Fixes

* Initial edit of Upload

* Edit Upload

* Edit Personalize

* Resized image in Personalize

* TOC - User profile section

* Edit pass on Bulk update topic

* Fixes

* Edit pass on Bulk Update

* Edit pass Bulk update

* Finish Bulk Update topic

* Fixes

* Fixes

* Initial edit pass for Deploy Add-ins

* Edit pass Deploy sites

* Edit Deploy Add-ins section

* Changed Portal to portal, updated link

[Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com/)

* Finish edit pass on Deploy Add-ins section

* Changed Management Portal to portal,  updated link

[Azure portal](https://ms.portal.azure.com)

* Initial edit pass PnP remote provisioning

* Edit pass on PnP Provisioning Engine topic

* Attempt to push build

* Edit pass of PnP framework

* Updated "storage" capitalization per style guide

* Edit pass on Engine & Core topic

* Edit of PnP sample

* Fixes

* Initial edits on Timer Job topics

* Finished Timer Job Framework topic

* Fixes to TJ framework topic

* Edit pass of remote timer jobs

* Initial edit of WebJobs topic

* Edit of WebJobs topic

* Minor fixes to Modern Experience topics

* Edited Modern Provisioning doc

* Added site classification topic to master page

docs/solution-guidance/pnp-provisioning-schema.md, after:

---
title: PnP provisioning schema
description: PnP resources and sample XML schema.
ms.date: 5/9/2018
---

# PnP provisioning schema

As you learned in [PnP provisioning framework](pnp-provisioning-framework.md) and elsewhere, the format for provisioning templates has been decoupled from the persistence format so that you can use any format you prefer. Nevertheless, because using the XML provisioning schema for persisting templates is such a common scenario, we're providing some additional information about how to use the XML schema to serialize and save your provisioning templates.

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> While the provisioning schema obviously supports XML serialization of provisioning templates, it also provides the structure for serialization in JSON format. More generally, the schema provides the model for defining provisioning structures.

## Provisioning schema resources

You can get the provisioning schema, along with its supporting files, on GitHub at [PnP-Provisioning-Schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema).

View the 20-minute Channel 9 video that discusses the provisioning schema: [Deep dive to PnP provisioning engine schema](https://channel9.msdn.com/blogs/OfficeDevPnP/Deep-dive-to-PnP-provisioning-engine-schema).

Sample schemas are available at [GitHub at PnP-Provisioning-Schema/Samples](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema/tree/master/Samples).

The following code block displays the schema's root element and direct child elements of the root. 

```xml
<pnp:ProvisioningTemplate
           xmlns:pnp="http://schemas.dev.office.com/PnP/2015/08/ProvisioningSchema"
           ID="xsd:ID"
           Version="xsd:decimal"
           ImagePreviewUrl="xsd:string"
           DisplayName="xsd:string"
           Description="xsd:string">
   <pnp:Properties />
   <pnp:SitePolicy />
   <pnp:RegionalSettings />
   <pnp:SupportedUILanguages />
   <pnp:AuditSettings />
   <pnp:PropertyBagEntries />
   <pnp:Security />
   <pnp:SiteFields />
   <pnp:ContentTypes />
   <pnp:Lists />
   <pnp:Features />
   <pnp:CustomActions />
   <pnp:Files />
   <pnp:Pages />
   <pnp:TermGroups />
   <pnp:ComposedLook />
   <pnp:Workflows />
   <pnp:SearchSettings />
   <pnp:Publishing />
   <pnp:AddIns />
   <pnp:Providers />
</pnp:ProvisioningTemplate>
```

## See also

- [PnP remote provisioning](pnp-remote-provisioning.md)
