docs/solution-guidance/sharepoint-site-provisioning-solutions.md, before:

---
title: SharePoint site provisioning solutions
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# SharePoint site provisioning solutions

Transition your SharePoint Online and SharePoint 2013 site provisioning solutions from full-trust code to the add-in model. 

_**Applies to:** Office 365 | SharePoint 2013 | SharePoint Add-ins | SharePoint Online_

The samples described in this section show you how to use provider-hosted add-ins to perform common site provisioning tasks such as site classification, creating content types, and managing permissions and users. The articles in this section will help you get started with and walk you through the primary scenarios that each sample illustrates. 

## In this section

|**Article**|**Sample**|**Shows you how to**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|[Implement a SharePoint site classification solution](implement-a-sharepoint-site-classification-solution.md)|[Core.SiteClassification](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Scenarios/Core.SiteClassification)|Implement a site classification solution and leverage site policies to improve search optimization. |
|[Modify SharePoint host web lists at creation time](modify-sharepoint-host-web-lists-at-creation-time.md)|[Core.EventReceiversBasedModifications](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Scenarios/Core.EventReceiversBasedModifications)|Modify a SharePoint list created in the host web at the time the list is created.|
|[Create SharePoint content types by using CSOM](create-sharepoint-content-types-by-using-csom.md)|[Core.SPD](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.SPD)|Use an inherited content type identifier to create a new content type on the Office 365 platform, preserving all its existing properties.|
|[Modify SharePoint site permissions and get external sharing status](modify-sharepoint-site-permissions-and-get-external-sharing-status.md)|[Core.SitePermissions](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Scenarios/Core.SitePermissions)|Modify properties of site collection administrators using CSOM code and get the external sharing status and external users of a site collection or tenant.|
|[Manage SharePoint users and groups](manage-sharepoint-users-and-groups.md)|[Core.GroupManagement](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Scenarios/Core.GroupManagement)|Manage users, groups, and permissions within a SharePoint site collection.|

## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

- [Branding and site provisioning solutions for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](Branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-SharePoint.md)
    
- [Patterns and Practices developer center](http://dev.office.com/patterns-and-practices)
    
- [Office 365 Development Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)

Commit message:

Edit complete for Solution guidance > Branding section (#1762)
* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Tweaks

* Edit pass

* Tweaks to headings

* Added What's New to TOC

* Added See also link

* Edit pass

* Fixed link

* Edit of Metadata page

* Changed Web Part to web part

* Changed Web Parts to web parts where applicable

* More Web Part updates

* Edit pass of Metadata page, continuing

* Fixes to table 1

* Adjusted spacing in Table 1

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Changed "web page" to "webpage" and "web site" to "website"

Per Microsoft Writing Style Guide guidance
https://worldready.cloudapp.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=36431

* Edit pass

* Edit of Loc topics

* Fixes

* Edit composed looks page and See also

* Edit pass on composed looks

* Updated file name

* update to OD4B page

* Edit pass of OD4B topic

* Edit pass of Branding pages

* Finish edit pass of Branding section

* Fixes

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on UX section

* Edit pass of UX section

* Edit of Site Provisioning section

docs/solution-guidance/sharepoint-site-provisioning-solutions.md, after:

---
title: SharePoint site provisioning solutions
description: Transition your SharePoint Online and SharePoint site provisioning solutions from full-trust code to the add-in model.
ms.date: 4/24/2018
---

# SharePoint site provisioning solutions

The samples described in this section show you how to use provider-hosted add-ins to perform common site provisioning tasks such as site classification, creating content types, and managing permissions and users. The articles in this section will help you get started with and walk you through the primary scenarios that each sample illustrates.  

<br/>

|Article|Sample|Shows you how to...|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|[Implement a SharePoint site classification solution](implement-a-sharepoint-site-classification-solution.md)|[Core.SiteClassification](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.SiteClassification)|Implement a site classification solution and leverage site policies to improve search optimization. |
|[Modify SharePoint host web lists at creation time](modify-sharepoint-host-web-lists-at-creation-time.md)|[Core.EventReceiversBasedModifications](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.EventReceiversBasedModifications)|Modify a SharePoint list created in the host web at the time the list is created.|
|[Create SharePoint content types by using CSOM](create-sharepoint-content-types-by-using-csom.md)|[Core.SPD](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.SPD)|Use an inherited content type identifier to create a new content type on the Office 365 platform, preserving all its existing properties.|
|[Modify SharePoint site permissions and get external sharing status](modify-sharepoint-site-permissions-and-get-external-sharing-status.md)|[Core.SitePermissions](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.SitePermissions)|Modify properties of site collection administrators using CSOM code and get the external sharing status and external users of a site collection or tenant.|
|[Manage SharePoint users and groups](manage-sharepoint-users-and-groups.md)|[Core.GroupManagement](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP/tree/dev/Samples/Core.GroupManagement)|Manage users, groups, and permissions within a SharePoint site collection.|

## See also
   
- [SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources](../community/community.md)  
- [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)
- [SharePoint pages and the page model](SharePoint-pages-and-the-page-model.md)
- [SharePoint development and design tools and practices](SharePoint-development-and-design-tools-and-practices.md)
- [SharePoint metadata, site navigation, and publishing site features](sharepoint-metadata-site-navigation-and-publishing-site-features.md)
- [Branding and site provisioning solutions for SharePoint](branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-sharepoint.md)
