docs/solution-guidance/ux-components-in-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md, before:

---
title: UX Components in SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online
ms.date: 11/03/2017
---
# UX Components in SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online

Use provider-hosted SharePoint Add-ins to control user experience (UX) components in SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online.

_**Applies to:** Office 365 | SharePoint 2013 | SharePoint Online_

## In this section

|**Article**|**Shows you how to**|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Customize the UX by using SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](customize-the-ux-by-using-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use provider-hosted add-ins that create and modify SharePoint pages, layouts, and other SharePoint artifacts and that customize the user experience on host sites.|
|[Create UX controls by using SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](create-ux-controls-by-using-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use JavaScript and the client object model (CSOM) to create UX controls for display in provider-hosted add-ins that interact with host sites. The examples include taxonomy picker, taxonomy menu, and people picker controls.|
|[Display information from a host site by using Office Web Widgets](display-information-from-a-host-site-by-using-office-web-widgets.md)|Use the experimental [Office Web Widgets NuGet package](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/office/dn636913%28v=office.15%29.aspx) in provider-hosted add-ins. These include the people picker and list view widgets.|
|[Improve performance in SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](improve-performance-in-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use HTML5 and HTTP cookies to cache data and reduce the number of calls to SharePoint services.|

## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

- [Branding and site provisioning solutions for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](Branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-SharePoint.md)
    
- [Add a custom ribbon to your SharePoint site](Add-a-custom-ribbon-to-your-SharePoint-site.md)
    
- [Composite business add-ins for SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Online](Composite-buisness-apps-for-SharePoint.md)

Commit message:

Edit complete for Solution guidance > Branding section (#1762)
* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Tweaks

* Edit pass

* Tweaks to headings

* Added What's New to TOC

* Added See also link

* Edit pass

* Fixed link

* Edit of Metadata page

* Changed Web Part to web part

* Changed Web Parts to web parts where applicable

* More Web Part updates

* Edit pass of Metadata page, continuing

* Fixes to table 1

* Adjusted spacing in Table 1

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Edit pass

* Changed "web page" to "webpage" and "web site" to "website"

Per Microsoft Writing Style Guide guidance
https://worldready.cloudapp.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=36431

* Edit pass

* Edit of Loc topics

* Fixes

* Edit composed looks page and See also

* Edit pass on composed looks

* Updated file name

* update to OD4B page

* Edit pass of OD4B topic

* Edit pass of Branding pages

* Finish edit pass of Branding section

* Fixes

* Edit pass

* Edit pass on UX section

* Edit pass of UX section

* Edit of Site Provisioning section

docs/solution-guidance/ux-components-in-sharepoint-2013-and-sharepoint-online.md, after:

---
title: UX components in SharePoint and SharePoint Online
description: Use provider-hosted SharePoint Add-ins to control user experience (UX) components in SharePoint and SharePoint Online. 
ms.date: 4/24/2018
---

# UX components in SharePoint and SharePoint Online

Use provider-hosted SharePoint Add-ins to control user experience (UX) components in SharePoint and SharePoint Online.

<br/>

|Article|Shows you how to...|
|:-----|:-----|
|[Customize the UX by using SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](customize-the-ux-by-using-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use provider-hosted add-ins that create and modify SharePoint pages, layouts, and other SharePoint artifacts and that customize the user experience on host sites.|
|[Create UX controls by using SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](create-ux-controls-by-using-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use JavaScript and the client object model (CSOM) to create UX controls for display in provider-hosted add-ins that interact with host sites. The examples include taxonomy picker, taxonomy menu, and people picker controls.|
|[Display information from a host site by using Office Web Widgets](display-information-from-a-host-site-by-using-office-web-widgets.md)|Use the experimental [Office Web Widgets NuGet package](../sp-add-ins/office-web-widgetsexperimental-overview.md) in provider-hosted add-ins. These include the people picker and list view widgets.|
|[Improve performance in SharePoint provider-hosted add-ins](improve-performance-in-sharepoint-provider-hosted-add-ins.md)|Use HTML5 and HTTP cookies to cache data and reduce the number of calls to SharePoint services.|

## See also

- [Add a custom ribbon to your SharePoint site](Add-a-custom-ribbon-to-your-SharePoint-site.md)   
- [Composite business add-ins for SharePoint and SharePoint Online](composite-business-apps-for-sharepoint.md)
- [SharePoint Developer Community (SharePoint PnP) resources](../community/community.md)  
- [Office 365 Developer Patterns and Practices on GitHub](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP)
- [Branding and site provisioning solutions for SharePoint](branding-and-site-provisioning-solutions-for-sharepoint.md)
