docs/schema/elements-sps15xsdsearchset4.md, before:

---
title: "Elements (SPS15XSDSearchSet4)"
manager: arnek
ms.date: 11/16/2014
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
ms.assetid: 25eeee29-60ba-b21e-f170-5400a81b72bf
description: "This topic lists the elements in the schema name XML schema."
---

# Elements (SPS15XSDSearchSet4)

**Applies to:** SharePoint Server 2013

This topic lists the elements in the `<schema name>` XML schema.
  
- [BoundVariableOrigin element](boundvariableorigin-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [GroupProcessingDirective element](groupprocessingdirective-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [LicenseType element](licensetype-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [MatchingOptions element](matchingoptions-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [QueryActionEnableOnClickThroughOptions element](queryactionenableonclickthroughoptions-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [QueryTransformParentType element](querytransformparenttype-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)

Commit message:

Updated Search Portability top-level topics

docs/schema/elements-sps15xsdsearchset4.md, after:

---
title: "Elements (SPS15XSDSearchSet4)"
manager: arnek
ms.date: 11/16/2014
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
ms.assetid: 25eeee29-60ba-b21e-f170-5400a81b72bf
description: Lists the elements in the schema_Microsoft.Office.Server.Search.Query.Rules XML schema.
---

# Elements (SPS15XSDSearchSet4)

**Applies to:** SharePoint Server 2013

This topic lists the elements in the **schema_Microsoft.Office.Server.Search.Query.Rules** XML schema.
  
- [BoundVariableOrigin element](boundvariableorigin-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [GroupProcessingDirective element](groupprocessingdirective-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [LicenseType element](licensetype-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [MatchingOptions element](matchingoptions-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [QueryActionEnableOnClickThroughOptions element](queryactionenableonclickthroughoptions-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
    
- [QueryTransformParentType element](querytransformparenttype-element-sps15xsdsearchset4.md)
