docs/schema/flyoutanchor-element.md, before:

---
title: "FlyoutAnchor Element"


manager: soliver
ms.date: 3/9/2015
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
api_name:
- Server Ribbon schema
api_type:
- schema
ms.assetid: 3f9dd191-ab3a-4e6a-93c8-d477418cccb8

description: "Last modified: March 09, 2015"
---

# FlyoutAnchor Element

 
  
 **Applies to:** SharePoint 2016 | SharePoint Foundation 2013 | SharePoint Online | SharePoint Server 2013
  
Defines the anchor point for a flyout menu.
  
```
<FlyoutAnchor
     Alt="Text"
     CachMenuVersions="TRUE | FALSE"
     Command="Text"
     CommandType="General | OptionSelect | IgnoredByMenu"
     CommandMenuClose="Text"
     Id="Text"
     Image16by16="Url"
     Image16by16Class="CSS Class Selector"
     Image16by16Left="Negative Integer"
     Image16by16Top="Negative Integer"
     Image32by32="Url"
     Image32by32Class="CSS Class Selector"
     Image32by32Left="Negative Integer"
     Image32by32Top="Negative Integer"
     LabelText="Text"
     PopulateDynamically="TRUE | FALSE"
     PopulateQueryCommand="Text"
     PopulateOnlyOnce="TRUE | FALSE"
     Sequence="Integer"
     TemplateAlias="Text"
     ToolTipImage32by32="Url"
     ToolTipImage32by32Class="Text"
     ToolTipImage32by32Left="Negative Integer"
     ToolTipImage32by32Top="Negative Integer"
     ToolTipTitle="Text"
     ToolTipDescription="Text"
     ToolTipHelpKeyWord="Text"
     ToolTipShortcutKey="Text"
/>
```

## Elements and attributes

The following sections describe attributes, child elements, and parent elements.

### Attributes

|**Attribute**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Alt** <br/> |Optional. Alternative text that is used for the control.  <br/> |
|**CacheMenuVersions** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to store previously constructed versions of a dynamic menu. The default is **FALSE**.  <br/> |
|**Command** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when the control is clicked. If the control is in a [CommandUIDefinition](commanduidefinition-element.md) element, the value of the **Command** attribute of the control should be the same as the value of the **Command** attribute of a corresponding [CommandUIHandler](commanduihandler-element.md) element.  <br/> |
|**CommandType** <br/> | Optional. An enumeration value that specifies the type of command.  <br/> **General**. Not a specific type of command.  <br/> **OptionSelection**. A command that is generated when a user selects one option in an option group.  <br/> **IgnoredByMenu**. A command that is used for controls that should not close the menu when they are clicked.  <br/> |
|**CommandMenuClose** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when the menu closes.  <br/> |
|**Id** <br/> |Required. A string that identifies the control, such as "Ribbon.WikiPageTab.Share.AlertMe".  <br/> |
|**Image16by16** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 16-by-16-pixel image to be used as an icon, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap16x16.png".  <br/> |
|**Image16by16Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS class selector to be applied to the image.  <br/> |
|**Image16by16Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image16by16** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons.  <br/> The value of the **Image16by16Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag. For example, setting the **Image16by16Left** attribute to "-176" and the **Image16by16Top** attribute to "-48" results in an inline style that is similar to the one in the following HTML markup:  <br/> ```HTML<img src="/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap16x16.png" style="position: absolute;left: -176px;top: -48px;" />```|
|**Image16by16Top** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the top edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image16by16** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons. The value of the **Image16by16Top** attribute is used to set the CSS **top** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag.  <br/> |
|**Image32by32** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 32-by-32-pixel image to be used as an icon, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap32x32.png".  <br/> |
|**Image32by32Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS class selector to be applied to the image.  <br/> |
|**Image32by32Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons. The value of the **Image32by32Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag.  <br/> |
|**LabelText** <br/> |Optional. Text for the label.  <br/> |
|**PopulateDynamically** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to create the menu dynamically. The default is **FALSE**.  <br/> |
|**PopulateQueryCommand** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when creating a dynamic menu.  <br/> |
|**PopulateOnlyOnce** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to populate a dynamic menu only the first time that it is accessed.  <br/> |
|**Sequence** <br/> |Optional. An integer that specifies the order of placement among sibling XML nodes.  <br/> |
|**TemplateAlias** <br/> |Optional. A string that matches the value of the **TemplateAlias** attribute for a [ControlRef](controlref-element.md) element, an [OverflowArea](overflowarea-element.md) element, or an [OverflowSection](overflowsection-element.md) element in a [GroupTemplate](grouptemplate-element.md) element. The **TemplateAlias** attribute is used to size and position controls within a group when a template is applied to the group. The value for this attribute should be unique within the group. No two controls that are contained by the same [Group](grouptemplate-element.md) element should use the same **TemplateAlias** value.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 32-by-32-pixel image to be used in the tooltip, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap32x32.png".  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS selector to be applied to the tooltip image.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **ToolTipImage32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains the images for many icons. The value of the **ToolTipImage32by32Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute when the page is created.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Top** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the top edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **ToolTipImage32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains the images for many icons. The value of the **ToolTipImage32by32Top** attribute is used to set the CSS **top** attribute when the page is created.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipTitle** <br/> |Optional. The text that appears as the title of the tooltip.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipDescription** <br/> |Optional. The text that appears in the body of the tooltip.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipHelpKeyWord** <br/> |Optional. The keyword that is used by context-sensitive Help.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipShortcutKey** <br/> |Optional. The text to display for the shortcut key in the tooltip. For example, if the shortcut key for the control is ALT + J, the value for this attribute is "ALT + J". The tooltip will display the text for the shortcut key in parentheses after the tooltip title: "(ALT + J)".  <br/> |
   
### Child elements

||
|:-----|
|[Menu](menu-element.md)|
   
### Parent elements

||
|:-----|
|[CommandUIDefinition](commanduidefinition-element.md) <br/> |
|[Controls](controls-element-group.md) (Group)  <br/> |
|[Controls](controls-element-menusection.md) (MenuSection)  <br/> |
   
### Occurrences

||
|:-----|
|Minimum: 0  <br/> Maximum: unbounded  <br/> |

Commit message:

Update Server Ribbon schema, part 1

docs/schema/flyoutanchor-element.md, after:

---
title: "FlyoutAnchor element (Server Ribbon)"
manager: soliver
ms.date: 3/9/2015
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
api_name:
- Server Ribbon schema
api_type:
- schema
ms.assetid: 3f9dd191-ab3a-4e6a-93c8-d477418cccb8
description: Defines the anchor point for a flyout menu.
---

# FlyoutAnchor element (Server Ribbon)

**Applies to:** SharePoint 2016 | SharePoint Foundation 2013 | SharePoint Online | SharePoint Server 2013
  
Defines the anchor point for a flyout menu.
  
```XML
<FlyoutAnchor
     Alt="Text"
     CachMenuVersions="TRUE | FALSE"
     Command="Text"
     CommandType="General | OptionSelect | IgnoredByMenu"
     CommandMenuClose="Text"
     Id="Text"
     Image16by16="Url"
     Image16by16Class="CSS Class Selector"
     Image16by16Left="Negative Integer"
     Image16by16Top="Negative Integer"
     Image32by32="Url"
     Image32by32Class="CSS Class Selector"
     Image32by32Left="Negative Integer"
     Image32by32Top="Negative Integer"
     LabelText="Text"
     PopulateDynamically="TRUE | FALSE"
     PopulateQueryCommand="Text"
     PopulateOnlyOnce="TRUE | FALSE"
     Sequence="Integer"
     TemplateAlias="Text"
     ToolTipImage32by32="Url"
     ToolTipImage32by32Class="Text"
     ToolTipImage32by32Left="Negative Integer"
     ToolTipImage32by32Top="Negative Integer"
     ToolTipTitle="Text"
     ToolTipDescription="Text"
     ToolTipHelpKeyWord="Text"
     ToolTipShortcutKey="Text"
/>
```

## Elements and attributes

The following sections describe attributes, child elements, and parent elements.

### Attributes

|**Attribute**|**Description**|
|:-----|:-----|
|**Alt** <br/> |Optional. Alternative text that is used for the control.  <br/> |
|**CacheMenuVersions** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to store previously constructed versions of a dynamic menu. The default is **FALSE**.  <br/> |
|**Command** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when the control is clicked. If the control is in a [CommandUIDefinition](commanduidefinition-element.md) element, the value of the **Command** attribute of the control should be the same as the value of the **Command** attribute of a corresponding [CommandUIHandler](commanduihandler-element.md) element.  <br/> |
|**CommandType** <br/> | Optional. An enumeration value that specifies the type of command.  <br/> **General**. Not a specific type of command.  <br/> **OptionSelection**. A command that is generated when a user selects one option in an option group.  <br/> **IgnoredByMenu**. A command that is used for controls that should not close the menu when they are clicked.  <br/> |
|**CommandMenuClose** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when the menu closes.  <br/> |
|**Id** <br/> |Required. A string that identifies the control, such as "Ribbon.WikiPageTab.Share.AlertMe".  <br/> |
|**Image16by16** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 16-by-16-pixel image to be used as an icon, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap16x16.png".  <br/> |
|**Image16by16Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS class selector to be applied to the image.  <br/> |
|**Image16by16Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image16by16** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons.  <br/> The value of the **Image16by16Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag. For example, setting the **Image16by16Left** attribute to "-176" and the **Image16by16Top** attribute to "-48" results in an inline style that is similar to the one in the following HTML markup:  <br/> `HTML<img src="/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap16x16.png" style="position: absolute;left: -176px;top: -48px;" />`|
|**Image16by16Top** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the top edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image16by16** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons. The value of the **Image16by16Top** attribute is used to set the CSS **top** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag.  <br/> |
|**Image32by32** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 32-by-32-pixel image to be used as an icon, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap32x32.png".  <br/> |
|**Image32by32Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS class selector to be applied to the image.  <br/> |
|**Image32by32Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **Image32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains images for many icons. The value of the **Image32by32Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute for the inline style of an HTML **img** tag.  <br/> |
|**LabelText** <br/> |Optional. Text for the label.  <br/> |
|**PopulateDynamically** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to create the menu dynamically. The default is **FALSE**.  <br/> |
|**PopulateQueryCommand** <br/> |Optional. The name of the command to execute when creating a dynamic menu.  <br/> |
|**PopulateOnlyOnce** <br/> |Optional. **TRUE** to populate a dynamic menu only the first time that it is accessed.  <br/> |
|**Sequence** <br/> |Optional. An integer that specifies the order of placement among sibling XML nodes.  <br/> |
|**TemplateAlias** <br/> |Optional. A string that matches the value of the **TemplateAlias** attribute for a [ControlRef](controlref-element.md) element, an [OverflowArea](overflowarea-element.md) element, or an [OverflowSection](overflowsection-element.md) element in a [GroupTemplate](grouptemplate-element.md) element. The **TemplateAlias** attribute is used to size and position controls within a group when a template is applied to the group. The value for this attribute should be unique within the group. No two controls that are contained by the same [Group](grouptemplate-element.md) element should use the same **TemplateAlias** value.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32** <br/> |Optional. A server-relative URL to a file that contains a 32-by-32-pixel image to be used in the tooltip, such as "/_layouts/1033/images/formatmap32x32.png".  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Class** <br/> |Optional. The name of a CSS selector to be applied to the tooltip image.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Left** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the left edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **ToolTipImage32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains the images for many icons. The value of the **ToolTipImage32by32Left** attribute is used to set the CSS **left** attribute when the page is created.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipImage32by32Top** <br/> |Optional. A negative integer that represents an offset for the top edge of the image. Use this attribute when the **ToolTipImage32by32** attribute points to an image file that contains the images for many icons. The value of the **ToolTipImage32by32Top** attribute is used to set the CSS **top** attribute when the page is created.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipTitle** <br/> |Optional. The text that appears as the title of the tooltip.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipDescription** <br/> |Optional. The text that appears in the body of the tooltip.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipHelpKeyWord** <br/> |Optional. The keyword that is used by context-sensitive Help.  <br/> |
|**ToolTipShortcutKey** <br/> |Optional. The text to display for the shortcut key in the tooltip. For example, if the shortcut key for the control is Alt+J, the value for this attribute is "Alt+J". The tooltip will display the text for the shortcut key in parentheses after the tooltip title: "(Alt+J)".  <br/> |
   
### Child elements

- [Menu](menu-element.md)
   
### Parent elements

- [CommandUIDefinition](commanduidefinition-element.md) 
- [Controls](controls-element-group.md) (Group)  
- [Controls](controls-element-menusection.md) (MenuSection) 
   
### Occurrences

- Minimum: 0
- Maximum: unbounded
