docs/schema/sharepoint-search-settings-portability-schemas.md, before:

---
manager: soliver
ms.date: 9/18/2015
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: overview
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
ms.assetid: f06f101e-b2e6-4e3e-9194-f750ab28d966
---

# SharePoint search settings portability schemas

**Applies to**: SharePoint 2016 | SharePoint Foundation 2013 | SharePoint Online | SharePoint Server 2013 | SharePoint Server 2013 Enterprise

The search settings portability schemas describe the XML files you need when you port SharePoint 2013 Search settings from one installation to another. These schemas can be included in your Visual Studio solutions when you work on custom solutions to create search configurations.

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet1](sps15xsdsearchset1.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet2](sps15xsdsearchset2.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet3](sps15xsdsearchset3.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet4](sps15xsdsearchset4.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet5](sps15xsdsearchset5.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet6](sps15xsdsearchset6.md)

<br/>

> [!NOTE] 
> You can [download the schemas](http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/2/2/12204CDE-56A6-4B2F-9719-4EA25FDA7743/SP15_search_settings_portability_schema.zip).

Commit message:

Updated Search Portability top-level topics

docs/schema/sharepoint-search-settings-portability-schemas.md, after:

---
title: SharePoint search settings portability schemas
manager: soliver
ms.date: 9/18/2015
ms.audience: Developer
ms.topic: overview
ms.prod: office-online-server
localization_priority: Normal
ms.assetid: f06f101e-b2e6-4e3e-9194-f750ab28d966
description: The search settings portability schemas describe the XML files you need when you port SharePoint 2013 Search settings from one installation to another.
---

# SharePoint search settings portability schemas

**Applies to**: SharePoint 2016 | SharePoint Foundation 2013 | SharePoint Online | SharePoint Server 2013 | SharePoint Server 2013 Enterprise

The search settings portability schemas describe the XML files you need when you port SharePoint 2013 Search settings from one installation to another. These schemas can be included in your Visual Studio solutions when you work on custom solutions to create search configurations.

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet1](sps15xsdsearchset1.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet2](sps15xsdsearchset2.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet3](sps15xsdsearchset3.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet4](sps15xsdsearchset4.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet5](sps15xsdsearchset5.md)

- [SPS15XSDSearchSet6](sps15xsdsearchset6.md)

<br/>

> [!NOTE] 
> You can [download the schemas](http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/2/2/12204CDE-56A6-4B2F-9719-4EA25FDA7743/SP15_search_settings_portability_schema.zip).
