docs/sp-add-ins/develop-cloud-business-add-ins.md, before:

---
title: Develop cloud business add-ins
description: Use the Cloud Business Add-in template and Visual Studio LightSwitch technologies to develop cloud business add-ins.
ms.date: 11/07/2017
ms.prod: sharepoint
---

# Develop cloud business add-ins

Cloud business add-ins are based on Visual Studio LightSwitch technologies. Some of the tasks for developing cloud business add-ins are unique to the Cloud Business Add-in template, but most are the same as for LightSwitch HTML client add-ins.

## Cloud business add-in developer tasks

- Cloud business add-ins are created by using the Cloud Business Add-in template in Visual Studio. See [Create a cloud business add-in](create-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

- By using the document library feature in SharePoint, you can create or upload documents associated with individual items in a list or entity. See [Associate a document library with an entity](associate-a-document-library-with-an-entity.md).

- In addition to the Office templates that are available when you add a document to a SharePoint document library, you can provide your own templates. See [Provide a template for a document library in a cloud business add-in](provide-a-template-for-a-document-library-in-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

- Social and collaboration features in SharePoint for Office 365 allow users to track activity on a list and add comments. You can easily create a newsfeed for your cloud business add-in by enabling a few properties. See [Enable a newsfeed for a cloud business add-in](enable-a-newsfeed-for-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

## HTML client developer tasks

- When you design HTML screens, you primarily use designers and tool windows, but you can also use code to modify those screens in specific ways. By using LightSwitch JavaScript APIs, you can perform many tasks. See [Modify an HTML screen by using code](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733572.aspx).

- When you develop an HTML client add-in, you can create several types of screens. See [Choosing a screen type for an HTML client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713590.aspx).

- Create a screen to display or collect information on a mobile device. See [Create an HTML client screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713589.aspx).

- If you create a dialog or a pop-up window for your add-in, users can display or specify information on a phone, tablet, or other mobile device that's running a client for that add-in. See [Create a dialog or pop-up](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713587.aspx).

- By using the screen designer, you can modify the appearance of screens in an HTML client. See [Design an HTML screen by using the screen designer](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733575.aspx).

- When you develop an HTML mobile client add-in, you can add code that runs when the user taps a button on a screen in that client. See [Add a button](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733573.aspx).

- You can collect an input value or display a calculated value by adding a local property field to a screen. See [Add a local property to a screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733571.aspx).

- You can add custom HTML controls to a screen. By using custom controls, you can display or collect information in ways that exceed the capabilities of the built-in HTML controls. See [Add a custom control to an HTML screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733569.aspx).

- By filtering the data that appears in your HTML client, you can help users identify the most relevant data for their tasks. See [Filter data in an HTML client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733574.aspx).

- As you design an HTML client add-in, you specify how users open one screen from another. They can open a screen by tapping either a list item on another screen or a button on the command bar. See [Control navigation between HTML screens](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733570.aspx).

- In addition to the standard navigation, you can provide a navigation menu that allows users to jump directly to another screen. See [Create a navigation menu](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn546744.aspx).

- As you develop an HTML mobile client add-in, you can write JavaScript code that runs when a user initiates a certain event. See [Handle screen events in a mobile client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj863131.aspx).

- You can create mobile add-ins that access and update SharePoint workflows, which help ensure that business processes are performed in a particular sequence. For example, you might use a workflow to route a document for approval or to process a payroll. See [Walkthrough: Accessing a SharePoint workflow](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn282437.aspx).

- By using LightSwitch, you can create an HTML client in which mobile users can view, add, and update data from remote locations by using modern, touch-oriented devices such as phones and tablets. In this walkthrough, you'll create a client for a fictional moving company, Contoso Moving, so that its customer-service staff can more easily estimate how many people, trucks, and boxes each job will require. See [Walkthrough: Creating a client for mobile users](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj674624.aspx).

## Additional resources
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

-  [Create cloud business add-ins](create-cloud-business-add-ins.md)
-  [HTML client screens for LightSwitch Add-ins](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj674623.aspx)

Commit message:

Added link to SAP Gateway topic

docs/sp-add-ins/develop-cloud-business-add-ins.md, after:

---
title: Develop cloud business add-ins
description: Use the Cloud Business Add-in template and Visual Studio LightSwitch technologies to develop cloud business add-ins.
ms.date: 11/07/2017
ms.prod: sharepoint
---

# Develop cloud business add-ins

Cloud business add-ins are based on Visual Studio LightSwitch technologies. Some of the tasks for developing cloud business add-ins are unique to the Cloud Business Add-in template, but most are the same as for LightSwitch HTML client add-ins.

## Cloud business add-in developer tasks

- Cloud business add-ins are created by using the Cloud Business Add-in template in Visual Studio. See [Create a cloud business add-in](create-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

- By using the document library feature in SharePoint, you can create or upload documents associated with individual items in a list or entity. See [Associate a document library with an entity](associate-a-document-library-with-an-entity.md).

- In addition to the Office templates that are available when you add a document to a SharePoint document library, you can provide your own templates. See [Provide a template for a document library in a cloud business add-in](provide-a-template-for-a-document-library-in-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

- Social and collaboration features in SharePoint for Office 365 allow users to track activity on a list and add comments. You can easily create a newsfeed for your cloud business add-in by enabling a few properties. See [Enable a newsfeed for a cloud business add-in](enable-a-newsfeed-for-a-cloud-business-add-in.md).

- You can build a LightSwitch SharePoint provider-hosted add-in to access SAP data by means of the SAP Gateway for Microsoft. See [Create a cloud business add-in that uses the SAP Gateway](create-a-cloud-business-add-in-that-uses-the-sap-gateway.md).

## HTML client developer tasks

- When you design HTML screens, you primarily use designers and tool windows, but you can also use code to modify those screens in specific ways. By using LightSwitch JavaScript APIs, you can perform many tasks. See [Modify an HTML screen by using code](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733572.aspx).

- When you develop an HTML client add-in, you can create several types of screens. See [Choosing a screen type for an HTML client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713590.aspx).

- Create a screen to display or collect information on a mobile device. See [Create an HTML client screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713589.aspx).

- If you create a dialog or a pop-up window for your add-in, users can display or specify information on a phone, tablet, or other mobile device that's running a client for that add-in. See [Create a dialog or pop-up](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj713587.aspx).

- By using the screen designer, you can modify the appearance of screens in an HTML client. See [Design an HTML screen by using the screen designer](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733575.aspx).

- When you develop an HTML mobile client add-in, you can add code that runs when the user taps a button on a screen in that client. See [Add a button](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733573.aspx).

- You can collect an input value or display a calculated value by adding a local property field to a screen. See [Add a local property to a screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733571.aspx).

- You can add custom HTML controls to a screen. By using custom controls, you can display or collect information in ways that exceed the capabilities of the built-in HTML controls. See [Add a custom control to an HTML screen](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733569.aspx).

- By filtering the data that appears in your HTML client, you can help users identify the most relevant data for their tasks. See [Filter data in an HTML client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733574.aspx).

- As you design an HTML client add-in, you specify how users open one screen from another. They can open a screen by tapping either a list item on another screen or a button on the command bar. See [Control navigation between HTML screens](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733570.aspx).

- In addition to the standard navigation, you can provide a navigation menu that allows users to jump directly to another screen. See [Create a navigation menu](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn546744.aspx).

- As you develop an HTML mobile client add-in, you can write JavaScript code that runs when a user initiates a certain event. See [Handle screen events in a mobile client](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj863131.aspx).

- You can create mobile add-ins that access and update SharePoint workflows, which help ensure that business processes are performed in a particular sequence. For example, you might use a workflow to route a document for approval or to process a payroll. See [Walkthrough: Accessing a SharePoint workflow](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn282437.aspx).

- By using LightSwitch, you can create an HTML client in which mobile users can view, add, and update data from remote locations by using modern, touch-oriented devices such as phones and tablets. In this walkthrough, you'll create a client for a fictional moving company, Contoso Moving, so that its customer-service staff can more easily estimate how many people, trucks, and boxes each job will require. See [Walkthrough: Creating a client for mobile users](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj674624.aspx).

## Additional resources
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

-  [Create cloud business add-ins](create-cloud-business-add-ins.md)
-  [HTML client screens for LightSwitch Add-ins](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj674623.aspx)
