docs/sp-add-ins/get-started-creating-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-ins.md, before:

---
title: Get started creating SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-ins
description: Set up a development environment and create your first SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in.
ms.date: 03/14/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint
localization_priority: Priority
---

# Get started creating SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-ins

SharePoint-hosted add-ins are one of the two major types of SharePoint Add-ins. For an overview of SharePoint Add-ins and the two different types, see [SharePoint Add-ins](sharepoint-add-ins.md). Here's a summary of SharePoint-hosted add-ins:

- They contain SharePoint lists, web parts, workflows, custom pages, and other components, all of which are installed on a subweb, called the add-in web, of the SharePoint website where the add-in is installed.
- The only code they have is JavaScript on custom SharePoint pages.

In this article, you'll complete the following steps:

- Set up your dev environment
- Create the add-in project
- Code your add-in
- Run the add-in and test the list

<a name="Setup"> </a>

## Set up your dev environment

There are many ways to set up a development environment for SharePoint Add-ins. This section explains the simplest way.

### Get the tools

- If you don't already have **Visual Studio** 2013 or later installed, install it by using the instructions at [Install Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/install/install-visual-studio). We recommend using the [latest version from the Microsoft Download Center](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/download-visual-studio-vs).
 
- Visual Studio includes the **Microsoft Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio**. Sometimes a version of the tools is released between updates of Visual Studio. To be sure that you have the latest version of the tools, run the [installer for Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio 2013](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevToolsForVS2013), or the [installer for Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio 2015](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevToolsForVS2015). 

For **Visual Studio** 2017, installing the Microsoft Office Developer Tools should be done through the **Visual Studio** 2017 Installer, which can be accessed from the New Project window.

Reference [earlier versions of Visual Studio](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/da049020-cfda-40d7-8ff4-7492772b620f.aspx) or other [Visual Studio documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/).

<a name="o365_signup"> </a>

### Sign up for an Office 365 developer subscription

> [!NOTE]
> You might already have access to an Office 365 developer subscription: 
> - **Are you a Visual Studio (MSDN) subscriber?** Visual Studio Ultimate and Visual Studio Premium with MSDN subscribers receive an Office 365 developer subscription as a benefit. [Redeem your benefit today](https://msdn.microsoft.com/subscriptions/manage/default.aspx). 
> - **Do you have one of the following Office 365 subscription plans?** If so, see [Create a developer site on an existing Office 365 subscription](create-a-developer-site-on-an-existing-office-365-subscription.md). 

To get an Office 365 plan: 

- [Sign up for an Office 365 developer subscription through the Office 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev-program).

- See the [Office 365 Developer Program documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/developer-program/office-365-developer-program) for step-by-step instructions about how to join the Office 365 Developer Program and sign up and configure your subscription.

### Open your developer site 
 
Select the **Build Add-ins** link in the upper-left corner of the page to open your developer site. You should see a site that looks like the one in the following figure. The **Add-ins in Testing** list on the page confirms that the website was made with the SharePoint Developer Site template. If you see a regular team site instead, wait a few minutes and then restart your site.
    
> [!NOTE]
> Make a note of the site's URL; it's used when you create SharePoint Add-in projects in Visual Studio.

**Your developer site home page with the Add-ins in Testing list**

![Screenshot that shows the developer site homepage.](../images/SP15_DeveloperSiteHome_border.png)


<a name="Create"> </a>

## Create the add-in project

1. Start Visual Studio by using the **Run as administrator** option.

2. In Visual Studio, select **File** > **New** > **New Project**.
 
3. In the **New Project** dialog box, expand the **Visual C#** node, expand the **Office/SharePoint** node, and then select **Add-ins** > **Add-in for SharePoint**.

4. Name the project **EmployeeOrientation**, and then select **OK**.

5. In the **Specify the Add-in for SharePoint Settings** dialog box, provide the full URL of the SharePoint site that you want to use to debug your add-in. This is the URL of the developer site. (Use HTTPS, not HTTP in the URL.) Under **How do you want to host your SharePoint Add-in**, select  **SharePoint-hosted**, and then select **Finish**.

6. You may be prompted to sign in to your developer site. If so, use your subscription administrator's credentials.

7. After the project is created, open the file **/Pages/Default.aspx** from the root of the project. Among other things, this generated file loads one or both of two scripts that are hosted on SharePoint: sp.runtime.js and sp.js. The markup for loading these files is in the **Content** control near the top of the file that has the ID **PlaceHolderAdditionalPageHead**. The markup varies depending on the version of **Microsoft Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio** that you are using. This series of tutorials requires that both files be loaded and that they be loaded with ordinary HTML **\<script\>** tags, not **\<SharePoint:ScriptLink\>** tags. 

    Ensure that the following lines are in the **PlaceHolderAdditionalPageHead** control, *just above*  the line `<meta name="WebPartPageExpansion" content="full" />`:
    
    ```
      <script type="text/javascript" src="/_layouts/15/sp.runtime.js"></script> 
      <script type="text/javascript" src="/_layouts/15/sp.js"></script> 
    ```

8. Search the file for any other markup that also loads one or the other of these files and remove the redundant markup. Save and close the file.

<a name="Code"> </a>
## Code your add-in

For your first SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in, we'll include the classic SharePoint extension: a custom list and list instance.

1. In **Solution Explorer**, open the AppManifest.xml file.

2. When the manifest designer opens, add a space between the words in the **Title** field so that it reads **Employee Orientation**. (Do  *not* change the **Name** field.)

3. Save and close the file.

4. Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder Lists.

5. Right-click the new folder and select **Add** > **New Item**. The **Add New Item** dialog opens to the **Office/SharePoint** node.

6. Select **List**. Give it the name **NewEmployeeOrientation**, and then select **Add**. 
 
7. On the **Choose List Settings** page of the SharePoint Customization Wizard, leave the list display name at the default **NewEmployeeOrientation**, select the **Create a customizable list template and a list instance of it** option button, select **Default (Custom List)** on the drop-down list, and then select **Finish**.

8. The wizard creates a **NewEmployeeOrientation** list template with a child list instance named **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance**. A list designer may open. It is used in a later step.

9. Expand the **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance** node in **Solution Explorer**, if it isn't already, so that you can clearly distinguish the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *instance* from the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *template*.

    ![List folder with child NewEmployeeOrientation template, which itself has three children; a NewEmployeeOrientationInstance, an elements.xml file, and a schema.xml file. The instance itself has a child named elements.xml.](../images/10e5d116-d24b-4a44-bfff-cfbf2f971b1e.PNG)

10. Open the elements.xml child of the **NewEmployeeOrientation** list template.

11. Add spaces to the **DisplayName** attribute (not the **Name** attribute) to make it friendlier: "New Employee Orientation."

12. Set the **Description** attribute to "Orientation information about new employees."

13. Leave all other attributes at their default, save the file, and close it.

14. If the list designer is not open, select the **NewEmployeeOrientation** node in **Solution Explorer**.

15. Open the **List** tab of the designer. This tab is used to set certain values for the list *instance*, not the list *template*, but it has some default values that it inherited from the template.

16. Change the values on the **List** tab to the following:
    
    -  **Title**: New Employees in Seattle
    -  **List URL**: Lists/NewEmployeesInSeattle
    -  **Description**: The new employees in Seattle

17. Leave the check boxes at their default status, save the file, and then close the designer.

18. The list instance may have its old name in **Solution Explorer**. If so, open the shortcut menu for **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance**, select **Rename**, and change the name to **NewEmployeesInSeattle**.

19. Open the schema.xml file.

20. In the **View** element whose **BaseViewID** value is "0", replace the existing **ViewFields** element with the following markup (use exactly this GUID for the **FieldRef** named `Title`). Line breaks may come at odd places in this autogenerated schema.xml file. Be sure you have found the matching begin and end tags for the **ViewFields** element. Add line breaks to improve readability. 

    ```
      <ViewFields>
         <FieldRef Name="Title" ID="{fa564e0f-0c70-4ab9-b863-0177e6ddd247}" DisplayName="Employee" />
      </ViewFields>
    ```

21. Still in the schema.xml file, in the **View** element whose **BaseViewID** value is "1", replace the existing **ViewFields** element with the following markup (use exactly this GUID for the **FieldRef** named `LinkTitle`).
    
    ```
      <ViewFields>
         <FieldRef Name="LinkTitle" ID="{82642ec8-ef9b-478f-acf9-31f7d45fbc31}" DisplayName="Employee" />
      </ViewFields>
    ```

22. Save and close the schema.xml file.

23. Open the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *instance* **NewEmployeesInSeattle** (not the elements.xml that is a child of the list *template* **NewEmployeeOrientation**).

24. In this file, populate the list with some initial data. You do this by adding the following **Data** element markup as a child element of the **ListInstance** element.
    
    ```
      <Data>
      <Rows>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Tom Higginbotham</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Satomi Hayakawa</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Cassi Hicks</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Lertchai Treetawatchaiwong</Field>
        </Row>
      </Rows>
    </Data>
    ```

25. Save and close the file.

26. In **Solution Explorer**, double-click **Feature1** to open the Feature designer. In the designer, set the **Title** to **New Employee Orientation Components** and set the **Description** to **Lists and other components for getting employees oriented to the company**. Save the file, and then close the designer.

27. If the **Feature1** in **Solution Explorer** has not been automatically renamed, open its shortcut menu, select **Rename**, and rename it to **NewEmployeeOrientationComponents**.

28. Open the Default.aspx file.

29. Find the ASP.NET **Content** element with the ID **PlaceHolderPageTitleInTitleArea**. Replace the default string **Page Title** with **New Employees by Location**.

30. Find the ASP.NET **Content** element with the ID **PlaceHolderMain**. *Replace* its contents with the following markup. The `_spPageContextInfo` is a JavaScript object that SharePoint automatically includes on the page. It's `webAbsoluteUrl` property returns the URL of the add-in web.
    
    ```XML
        <p><asp:HyperLink runat="server" 
        NavigateUrl="JavaScript:window.location = _spPageContextInfo.webAbsoluteUrl + '/Lists/NewEmployeesInSeattle/AllItems.aspx';" 
        Text="New Employees in Seattle" /></p>
    ```

<a name="Code"> </a>
## Run the add-in and test the list

1. Use the F5 key to deploy and run your add-in. Visual Studio makes a temporary installation of the add-in on your test SharePoint site and immediately runs the add-in. (To find out how end users run an installed SharePoint Add-in, see [Next Steps](#Nextsteps).)

2. When the add-in's default page opens, select the **New Employees in Seattle** link to open the custom list instance.

    ![The add-in's default page is shown with its title New Employees by Location. There is a link labeled New Employees in Seattle. An arrow from this link points to the list view page for the list. It is titled New Employees in Seattle, with the list below.](../images/9dc5cefe-083a-4807-bee6-473001f23db9.png)

3. Add and delete items from the list.

4. To end the debugging session, close the browser window or stop debugging in Visual Studio. Each time that you press F5, Visual Studio will retract the previous version of the add-in and install the latest one.

5. You will work with this add-in and Visual Studio solution in other articles, and it's a good practice to retract the add-in one last time when you are finished working with it for a while. Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer**, and select **Retract**.

<a name="Nextsteps"> </a>
## Next steps

To create your add-ins, walk through the following steps in this order:

1.  [Deploy and install a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](deploy-and-install-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
2.  [Add custom columns to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-custom-columns-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
3.  [Add a custom content type to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-custom-content-type-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
4.  [Add a web part to a page in a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-web-part-to-a-page-in-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
5.  [Add a workflow to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-workflow-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
6.  [Add a custom page and style to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-custom-page-and-style-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
7.  [Add custom client-side rendering to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-custom-client-side-rendering-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
8.  [Create a custom ribbon button in the host web of a SharePoint Add-in](create-a-custom-ribbon-button-in-the-host-web-of-a-sharepoint-add-in.md)
9.  [Use the SharePoint JavaScript APIs to work with SharePoint data](use-the-sharepoint-javascript-apis-to-work-with-sharepoint-data.md)
10. [Work with host web data from JavaScript in the add-in web](work-with-host-web-data-from-javascript-in-the-add-in-web.md)

Commit message:

Multiple updates to docs fixing typos, broken links & clarifications (#3421)
* docfix for code exception (issue1536)

- fixes #1536

* doc clarification fix (issue1552)

- previous doc was unclear what page the user was on
- updated doc to be more generic and not such a specific exp as UX changes over time

- fixes #1552

* link fixup (issue2068)

- update link to working & relevant MVA course

- fixes #2068

* docfix for correct SPFx version (issue #3315)

- updated doc to reference SPFx 1.6 instead of 1.4.1 as the code snippets in the doc are only relevant to the GA of `MSGraphClient`

- fixes #3315

* linkfix (issue 3400)

- fix broken link

- fixes #3400

docs/sp-add-ins/get-started-creating-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-ins.md, after:

---
title: Get started creating SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-ins
description: Set up a development environment and create your first SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in.
ms.date: 03/14/2018
ms.prod: sharepoint
localization_priority: Priority
---

# Get started creating SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-ins

SharePoint-hosted add-ins are one of the two major types of SharePoint Add-ins. For an overview of SharePoint Add-ins and the two different types, see [SharePoint Add-ins](sharepoint-add-ins.md). Here's a summary of SharePoint-hosted add-ins:

- They contain SharePoint lists, web parts, workflows, custom pages, and other components, all of which are installed on a subweb, called the add-in web, of the SharePoint website where the add-in is installed.
- The only code they have is JavaScript on custom SharePoint pages.

In this article, you'll complete the following steps:

- Set up your dev environment
- Create the add-in project
- Code your add-in
- Run the add-in and test the list

<a name="Setup"> </a>

## Set up your dev environment

There are many ways to set up a development environment for SharePoint Add-ins. This section explains the simplest way.

### Get the tools

- If you don't already have **Visual Studio** 2013 or later installed, install it by using the instructions at [Install Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/install/install-visual-studio). We recommend using the [latest version from the Microsoft Download Center](https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/download-visual-studio-vs).
 
- Visual Studio includes the **Microsoft Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio**. Sometimes a version of the tools is released between updates of Visual Studio. To be sure that you have the latest version of the tools, run the [installer for Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio 2013](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevToolsForVS2013), or the [installer for Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio 2015](http://aka.ms/OfficeDevToolsForVS2015). 

For **Visual Studio** 2017, installing the Microsoft Office Developer Tools should be done through the **Visual Studio** 2017 Installer, which can be accessed from the New Project window.

Reference [earlier versions of Visual Studio](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/da049020-cfda-40d7-8ff4-7492772b620f.aspx) or other [Visual Studio documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/).

<a name="o365_signup"> </a>

### Sign up for an Office 365 developer subscription

> [!NOTE]
> You might already have access to an Office 365 developer subscription: 
> - **Are you a Visual Studio (MSDN) subscriber?** Visual Studio Ultimate and Visual Studio Premium with MSDN subscribers receive an Office 365 developer subscription as a benefit. [Redeem your benefit today](https://msdn.microsoft.com/subscriptions/manage/default.aspx). 
> - **Do you have one of the following Office 365 subscription plans?** If so, see [Create a developer site on an existing Office 365 subscription](create-a-developer-site-on-an-existing-office-365-subscription.md). 

To get an Office 365 plan: 

- [Sign up for an Office 365 developer subscription through the Office 365 Developer Program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev-program).

- See the [Office 365 Developer Program documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/developer-program/office-365-developer-program) for step-by-step instructions about how to join the Office 365 Developer Program and sign up and configure your subscription.

### Open your developer site 

In a browser, navigate to the SharePoint site collection you created when you setup your Office 365 developer subscription. (*If you don't have a site, follow the instructions here*). You should see a site that looks like the one in the following figure. The **Add-ins in Testing** list on the page confirms that the website was made with the SharePoint Developer Site template. If you see a regular team site instead, wait a few minutes and then restart your site.
    
> [!NOTE]
> Make a note of the site's URL; it's used when you create SharePoint Add-in projects in Visual Studio.

**Your developer site home page with the Add-ins in Testing list**

![Screenshot that shows the developer site homepage.](../images/SP15_DeveloperSiteHome_border.png)


<a name="Create"> </a>

## Create the add-in project

1. Start Visual Studio by using the **Run as administrator** option.

2. In Visual Studio, select **File** > **New** > **New Project**.
 
3. In the **New Project** dialog box, expand the **Visual C#** node, expand the **Office/SharePoint** node, and then select **Add-ins** > **Add-in for SharePoint**.

4. Name the project **EmployeeOrientation**, and then select **OK**.

5. In the **Specify the Add-in for SharePoint Settings** dialog box, provide the full URL of the SharePoint site that you want to use to debug your add-in. This is the URL of the developer site. (Use HTTPS, not HTTP in the URL.) Under **How do you want to host your SharePoint Add-in**, select  **SharePoint-hosted**, and then select **Finish**.

6. You may be prompted to sign in to your developer site. If so, use your subscription administrator's credentials.

7. After the project is created, open the file **/Pages/Default.aspx** from the root of the project. Among other things, this generated file loads one or both of two scripts that are hosted on SharePoint: sp.runtime.js and sp.js. The markup for loading these files is in the **Content** control near the top of the file that has the ID **PlaceHolderAdditionalPageHead**. The markup varies depending on the version of **Microsoft Office Developer Tools for Visual Studio** that you are using. This series of tutorials requires that both files be loaded and that they be loaded with ordinary HTML **\<script\>** tags, not **\<SharePoint:ScriptLink\>** tags. 

    Ensure that the following lines are in the **PlaceHolderAdditionalPageHead** control, *just above*  the line `<meta name="WebPartPageExpansion" content="full" />`:
    
    ```
      <script type="text/javascript" src="/_layouts/15/sp.runtime.js"></script> 
      <script type="text/javascript" src="/_layouts/15/sp.js"></script> 
    ```

8. Search the file for any other markup that also loads one or the other of these files and remove the redundant markup. Save and close the file.

<a name="Code"> </a>
## Code your add-in

For your first SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in, we'll include the classic SharePoint extension: a custom list and list instance.

1. In **Solution Explorer**, open the AppManifest.xml file.

2. When the manifest designer opens, add a space between the words in the **Title** field so that it reads **Employee Orientation**. (Do  *not* change the **Name** field.)

3. Save and close the file.

4. Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer** and select **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder Lists.

5. Right-click the new folder and select **Add** > **New Item**. The **Add New Item** dialog opens to the **Office/SharePoint** node.

6. Select **List**. Give it the name **NewEmployeeOrientation**, and then select **Add**. 
 
7. On the **Choose List Settings** page of the SharePoint Customization Wizard, leave the list display name at the default **NewEmployeeOrientation**, select the **Create a customizable list template and a list instance of it** option button, select **Default (Custom List)** on the drop-down list, and then select **Finish**.

8. The wizard creates a **NewEmployeeOrientation** list template with a child list instance named **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance**. A list designer may open. It is used in a later step.

9. Expand the **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance** node in **Solution Explorer**, if it isn't already, so that you can clearly distinguish the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *instance* from the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *template*.

    ![List folder with child NewEmployeeOrientation template, which itself has three children; a NewEmployeeOrientationInstance, an elements.xml file, and a schema.xml file. The instance itself has a child named elements.xml.](../images/10e5d116-d24b-4a44-bfff-cfbf2f971b1e.PNG)

10. Open the elements.xml child of the **NewEmployeeOrientation** list template.

11. Add spaces to the **DisplayName** attribute (not the **Name** attribute) to make it friendlier: "New Employee Orientation."

12. Set the **Description** attribute to "Orientation information about new employees."

13. Leave all other attributes at their default, save the file, and close it.

14. If the list designer is not open, select the **NewEmployeeOrientation** node in **Solution Explorer**.

15. Open the **List** tab of the designer. This tab is used to set certain values for the list *instance*, not the list *template*, but it has some default values that it inherited from the template.

16. Change the values on the **List** tab to the following:
    
    -  **Title**: New Employees in Seattle
    -  **List URL**: Lists/NewEmployeesInSeattle
    -  **Description**: The new employees in Seattle

17. Leave the check boxes at their default status, save the file, and then close the designer.

18. The list instance may have its old name in **Solution Explorer**. If so, open the shortcut menu for **NewEmployeeOrientationInstance**, select **Rename**, and change the name to **NewEmployeesInSeattle**.

19. Open the schema.xml file.

20. In the **View** element whose **BaseViewID** value is "0", replace the existing **ViewFields** element with the following markup (use exactly this GUID for the **FieldRef** named `Title`). Line breaks may come at odd places in this autogenerated schema.xml file. Be sure you have found the matching begin and end tags for the **ViewFields** element. Add line breaks to improve readability. 

    ```
      <ViewFields>
         <FieldRef Name="Title" ID="{fa564e0f-0c70-4ab9-b863-0177e6ddd247}" DisplayName="Employee" />
      </ViewFields>
    ```

21. Still in the schema.xml file, in the **View** element whose **BaseViewID** value is "1", replace the existing **ViewFields** element with the following markup (use exactly this GUID for the **FieldRef** named `LinkTitle`).
    
    ```
      <ViewFields>
         <FieldRef Name="LinkTitle" ID="{82642ec8-ef9b-478f-acf9-31f7d45fbc31}" DisplayName="Employee" />
      </ViewFields>
    ```

22. Save and close the schema.xml file.

23. Open the elements.xml file that is a child of the list *instance* **NewEmployeesInSeattle** (not the elements.xml that is a child of the list *template* **NewEmployeeOrientation**).

24. In this file, populate the list with some initial data. You do this by adding the following **Data** element markup as a child element of the **ListInstance** element.
    
    ```
      <Data>
      <Rows>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Tom Higginbotham</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Satomi Hayakawa</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Cassi Hicks</Field>
        </Row>
        <Row>
          <Field Name="Title">Lertchai Treetawatchaiwong</Field>
        </Row>
      </Rows>
    </Data>
    ```

25. Save and close the file.

26. In **Solution Explorer**, double-click **Feature1** to open the Feature designer. In the designer, set the **Title** to **New Employee Orientation Components** and set the **Description** to **Lists and other components for getting employees oriented to the company**. Save the file, and then close the designer.

27. If the **Feature1** in **Solution Explorer** has not been automatically renamed, open its shortcut menu, select **Rename**, and rename it to **NewEmployeeOrientationComponents**.

28. Open the Default.aspx file.

29. Find the ASP.NET **Content** element with the ID **PlaceHolderPageTitleInTitleArea**. Replace the default string **Page Title** with **New Employees by Location**.

30. Find the ASP.NET **Content** element with the ID **PlaceHolderMain**. *Replace* its contents with the following markup. The `_spPageContextInfo` is a JavaScript object that SharePoint automatically includes on the page. It's `webAbsoluteUrl` property returns the URL of the add-in web.
    
    ```XML
        <p><asp:HyperLink runat="server" 
        NavigateUrl="JavaScript:window.location = _spPageContextInfo.webAbsoluteUrl + '/Lists/NewEmployeesInSeattle/AllItems.aspx';" 
        Text="New Employees in Seattle" /></p>
    ```

<a name="Code"> </a>
## Run the add-in and test the list

1. Use the F5 key to deploy and run your add-in. Visual Studio makes a temporary installation of the add-in on your test SharePoint site and immediately runs the add-in. (To find out how end users run an installed SharePoint Add-in, see [Next Steps](#Nextsteps).)

2. When the add-in's default page opens, select the **New Employees in Seattle** link to open the custom list instance.

    ![The add-in's default page is shown with its title New Employees by Location. There is a link labeled New Employees in Seattle. An arrow from this link points to the list view page for the list. It is titled New Employees in Seattle, with the list below.](../images/9dc5cefe-083a-4807-bee6-473001f23db9.png)

3. Add and delete items from the list.

4. To end the debugging session, close the browser window or stop debugging in Visual Studio. Each time that you press F5, Visual Studio will retract the previous version of the add-in and install the latest one.

5. You will work with this add-in and Visual Studio solution in other articles, and it's a good practice to retract the add-in one last time when you are finished working with it for a while. Right-click the project in **Solution Explorer**, and select **Retract**.

<a name="Nextsteps"> </a>
## Next steps

To create your add-ins, walk through the following steps in this order:

1.  [Deploy and install a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](deploy-and-install-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
2.  [Add custom columns to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-custom-columns-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
3.  [Add a custom content type to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-custom-content-type-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
4.  [Add a web part to a page in a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-web-part-to-a-page-in-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
5.  [Add a workflow to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-workflow-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
6.  [Add a custom page and style to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-a-custom-page-and-style-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
7.  [Add custom client-side rendering to a SharePoint-hosted SharePoint Add-in](add-custom-client-side-rendering-to-a-sharepoint-hosted-sharepoint-add-in.md)
8.  [Create a custom ribbon button in the host web of a SharePoint Add-in](create-a-custom-ribbon-button-in-the-host-web-of-a-sharepoint-add-in.md)
9.  [Use the SharePoint JavaScript APIs to work with SharePoint data](use-the-sharepoint-javascript-apis-to-work-with-sharepoint-data.md)
10. [Work with host web data from JavaScript in the add-in web](work-with-host-web-data-from-javascript-in-the-add-in-web.md)
