docs/sp-add-ins/sharepoint-net-server-csom-jsom-and-rest-api-index.md, before:

﻿---
title: SharePoint .NET Server, CSOM, JSOM, and REST API index
ms.date: 09/25/2017
ms.prod: sharepoint
---


# SharePoint .NET Server, CSOM, JSOM, and REST API index

 
 


## SharePoint API index

Use the API index look up many of the most frequently used types and objects that are implemented in the .NET server object model and at least one client programming model: .NET client-side object model (CSOM), JavaScript object model (JSOM), and/or REST.
 

 
Table 1 lists the most frequently used, core APIs, which are in most cases based on types from the .NET server implementation. In some cases, types are native to SharePoint client programming, and there is no equivalent .NET server type. In other cases, some but not all possible client programming model implementations of a specific type exist.
 

 
 *Table 1. Frequently used Core APIs* 
 

||||
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**API**|**SP.Object/Enumeration (sp.js)**|**REST Endpoint**|
|**AttachmentCollection** **SPAttachmentCollection**| [SP.AttachmentCollection](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/28247ba7-eeaf-e1fc-0609-fb4c39b5d53c%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/lists('<list id>')/items(<item id>)/attachmentfiles`|
|**BasePermissions** **SPBasePermissions**| [SP.BasePermissions object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/40349d51-1068-08c6-8ba4-b23ee58396c4%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**CalendarType** **SPCalendarType**| [SP.CalendarType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/33242ef7-1300-b534-6e8e-c5df1a3df85b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ChangeCollection** **SPChangeCollection**| [SP.ChangeCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/528b8776-f295-77ff-5403-a3556b4f3081%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/getchanges(changequery)`|
|**ChangeSite** **SPChangeSite**| [SP.ChangeSite enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fab86803-f106-97d0-6e97-696c91f210cd%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ClientContext**| [SP.ClientContext object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/662619d3-60b9-92a8-5da7-b481c9b73c79%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/contextinfo`|
|**ContentType** **SPContentType**| [SP.ContentType object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5418f5ad-8a47-3bf7-a8ac-99b10ba04294%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes('<content type id>')`|
|**ContentTypeCollection** **SPContentTypeCollection**| [SP.ContentTypeCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e89cc14d-40ea-5e7a-c3db-efe7e6697445%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes`|
|**SPContext**| [SP.RequestContext object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7bf846f5-e049-ca89-14b7-cf9fed8a82f1%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**EventReceiverDefinition** **SPEventReceiverDefinition**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinition object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7d78e562-fb0e-2e87-aa47-022aa0c5848c%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/eventreceivers`|
|**EventReceiverDefinitionCollection** **SPEventReceiverDefinitionCollection**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinitionCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1a495e76-00ab-4e20-e824-c3612458448d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/eventreceivers(eventreceiverid)`|
|**EventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation** **SPEventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/38382946-d098-b658-306f-019ee4d0e15e%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**EventReceiverType** **SPEventReceiverType**| [SP.EventReceiverType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/8b4db240-9814-052c-fb67-1e840b610969%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Feature** **SPFeature**| [SP.Feature object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e998df87-9250-17d1-737d-a37092f36ec8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/features(featureid)`|
|**FeatureCollection** **SPFeatureCollection**| [SP.FeatureCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ab02330d-3102-8342-5641-a9a4f6a48772%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/features`|
|**FeatureDefinitionScope** **SPFeatureDefinitionScope**| [SP.FeatureDefinitionScope enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/574f7613-5707-d0ad-dc72-02d639a299ff%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Field** **SPField**| [SP.Field object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d1e50cda-8d5e-47aa-8c78-23b1707dca04%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Field)|
|**FieldCalculated** **SPFieldCalculated**| [SP.FieldCalculated object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/40a5b764-f1be-482b-7779-88e9bbb3f70a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldCalculated)|
|**FieldChoice** **SPFieldChoice**| [SP.FieldChoice object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4521054f-8b98-892a-1e4f-016684e2872f%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiChoice)|
|**FieldCollection** **SPFieldCollection**| [SP.FieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/db532e07-a4e8-d2f8-4ac8-c14de4adc761%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldCollection)|
|**FieldComputed** **SPFieldComputed**| [SP.FieldComputed object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c00fcb21-1aab-6aff-cc9c-a7b1c9cd70f6%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldComputed)|
|**FieldCurrency** **SPFieldCurrency**| [SP.FieldCurrency object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/aef1c982-fb34-3c5c-a6dc-659fd16b32e7%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldNumber)|
|**FieldLink** **SPFieldLink**| [SP.FieldLink object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5dc71a19-3260-20fa-73ed-3de3cde37825%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes('<content type id>')/fieldlinks('<field link id>')`|
|**FieldLookupValue** **SPFieldLookupValue**| [SP.FieldLookup object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/275b256e-1192-75f5-b604-ec002448be02%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**FieldMultiChoice** **SPFieldMultiChoice**| [SP.FieldMultiChoice object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a9546014-715a-ed57-993f-bbe237f92880%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiChoice)|
|**FieldMultiLineText** **SPFieldMultiLineText**| [SP.FieldMultiLineText object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/52d130f2-6858-3aa1-88ce-d5b73eccd150%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiLineText)|
|**FieldNumber** **SPFieldNumber**| [SP.FieldNumber object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1c3d179f-21a7-66cc-ea16-3341ea50f395%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldNumber)|
|**FieldText** **SPFieldText**| [SP.FieldText object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ba9a623c-b387-862d-eb1b-eb9d7fd9e04e%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldText)|
|**FieldUrl** **SPFieldUrl**| [SP.FieldUrl object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4eeff596-fa18-d21e-8cc0-fd8463fb5351%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldUrl)|
|**FieldUrlValue** **SPFieldUrlValue**| [SP.FieldUrlValue object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3866f4a6-8fda-586a-ecdc-0c7e7d7ad44b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**FieldUser** **SPFieldUser**| [SP.FieldUser object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/9058425f-b35a-b8a3-d5d1-b2abdbf08576%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldLookup)|
|**File** **SPFile**| [SP.File object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/860609d0-d317-41ca-9164-159e522d07cb%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfilebyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>/<file name>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_File)|
|**FileCollection** **SPFileCollection**| [SP.FieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/db532e07-a4e8-d2f8-4ac8-c14de4adc761%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfolderbyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>')/files](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FileCollection)|
|**Folder** **SPFolder**| [SP.Folder object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/60117e9d-6e9c-8aa9-be9f-a287bc1f547f%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfolderbyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Folder)|
|**Form** **SPForm**| [SP.Form object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/8d5429c4-c218-a17e-51ee-1d34914d5550%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/forms('<form id>')`|
|**Group** **SPGroup**| [SP.Group object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/763a2172-1d66-cf41-4121-d26902e6f42a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups(<group id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Group)|
|**GroupCollection** **SPGroupCollection**| [SP.GroupCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c20fa978-7e6c-e9f6-b169-852872b982e6%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_GroupCollection)|
|**Language** **SPLanguage**| [SP.Language object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/072936e7-a23f-f4ea-9c6d-c484b3ba1d25%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**List** **SPList**| [SP.List object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/6d4b1a5d-0600-87d3-757d-360679d937dc%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_List)|
|**ListCollection** **SPListCollection**| [SP.ListCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/abc4fe81-3b0f-dffb-dba5-638c3f58268a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListCollection)|
|**ListDataSource** **SPListDataSource**| [SP.ListDataSource object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/099059ae-2261-e3f5-d8f2-7dbcbadeff21%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ListItem** **SPListItem**| [SP.ListItem object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3ea127c9-6cba-fe11-2193-ff2dc5c02fbf%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/items(<item id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListItem)|
|**ListItemCollection** **SPListItemCollection**| [SP.ListItemCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/05107bcd-32d5-b2a5-05d2-12152441c1fc%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/items](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListItemCollection)|
|**ListTemplateType** **SPListTemplateType**| [SP.ListTemplateType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1ccbd999-9415-8449-6b38-aadb9549f384%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Navigation** **SPNavigation**| [SP.Navigation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/22777706-0bf1-ae70-0d99-529e643a2f31%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/navigation`|
|**NavigationNode** **SPNavigationNode**| [SP.NavigationNode object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ec8a4fe0-6996-dba3-f565-4333c5046311%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Principal** **SPPrincipal**| [SP.Principal object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/2d89b994-f692-7b2c-0cd0-be586586d70a%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**SPQuery**||N/A|
|**RecycleBinItem** **SPRecycleBinItem**| [SP.RecycleBinItem object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4109c8f7-2dbe-95db-a0b2-064da24f4ed9%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RecycleBin(recyclebinitemid)`|
|**RecycleBinItemCollection** **SPRecycleBinItemCollection**| [SP.RecycleBinItemCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e182d87a-b0be-dc3e-ba9e-69f9148e9366%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RecycleBin`|
|**RegionalSettings** **SPRegionalSettings**| [SP.RegionalSettings object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fcf7b8c8-c595-8646-6d60-7ae27084848d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings`|
|**RoleAssignment** **SPRoleAssignment**| [SP.RoleAssignment object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5dd76bb3-c0a0-a3b8-8263-723fe3d542f8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roleassignments(<principal id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleAssignment)|
|**RoleAssignmentCollection** **SPRoleAssignmentCollection**| [SP.RoleAssignmentCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ec84c668-9eca-45e8-40ae-8d9ac283d3b1%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roleassignments](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleAssignmentCollection)|
|**RoleDefinition** **SPRoleDefinition**| [SP.RoleDefinition object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a7871c97-07d9-b63f-bdb8-6812adb82be8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roledefinitions(<role definition id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleDefinition)|
|**RoleType** **SPRoleType**| [SP.RoleType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c2c0149f-6b90-9cd5-73d8-5ee3ab9c2ca9%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**SecurableObject** **SPSecurableObject**| [SP.SecurableObject object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/6b9c310e-2a80-9bff-540b-28d54b37c841%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Site** **SPSite**| [SP.Site object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d3169eb6-882f-180a-2159-34301f66746a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/site`|
|**TimeZone** **SPTimeZone**| [SP.TimeZone object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5bef51e2-c86c-1821-0462-0749e77f9be3%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings/TimeZones(timzoneid)`|
|**TimeZoneCollection** **SPTimeZoneCollection**| [SP.TimeZoneCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/95b45caa-c88f-2f53-c99e-738859d7bb93%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings/TimeZones`|
|**User** **SPUser**| [SP.User object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d36be210-3c1d-c589-e703-1ad66156dc18%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/siteusers(@v)?@v='<login name>'](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_User)|
|**UserCollection** **SPUserCollection**| [SP.UserCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1bb7bd28-4f19-a8a7-762f-3887c2b8ef7d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups(<group id>)/users](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_UserCollection)|
|**Utility** **SPUtility**| [SP.Utilities.Utility object (sp.js)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/57148667-64ff-7fed-8665-03226e70a96b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**View** **SPView**| [SP.View object (sp.js)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7b97ecb8-47cc-5c76-231f-81fa4ccae30a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views('<view id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_View)|
|**ViewCollection** **SPViewCollection**| [SP.ViewCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3b0214c7-17b3-152c-78fa-a7a01e8b679a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ViewCollection)|
|**ViewFieldCollection** **SPViewFieldCollection**| [SP.ViewFieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/05cab807-0609-5881-4119-bea2623eb01d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views('<view id>')/fields](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ViewFieldCollection)|
|**Web** **SPWeb**| [SP.Web object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3685fd38-a11d-f07c-c042-13efc6473ba5%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/webs-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Web)|
|**WebCollection** **SPWebCollection**| [SP.WebCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fa790853-9ced-0e79-4ce4-9228c336d770%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/webs](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/webs-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_WebCollection)|
|**WebInformation** **SPWebInfo**| [SP.WebInformation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/006ca57d-50c2-9605-c4ef-fee212aacd54%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/webinfos('<web information id>')`|
|**WebTemplate** **SPWebTemplate**| [SP.WebTemplate object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cd670582-20a3-30b7-20f5-758be6d838da%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/GetAvailableWebTemplates(languageid,includecrosslanguage)/getbyname(templatename)`|
|**WebTemplateCollection** **SPWebTemplateCollection**| [SP.WebTemplateCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c6e8b2c8-4f0f-bfda-2626-49c59ef92844%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/GetAvailableWebTemplates(languageid,includecrosslanguage)`|

> [!NOTE] 
> Before using a REST endpoint URI shown in the table, replace the  `…` abbreviation with the path to your SharePoint site, for example `http://<site collection>/<site>/_api/web/lists`.
 


## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>


-  [Complete basic operations using SharePoint client library code](complete-basic-operations-using-sharepoint-client-library-code.md)
    
 
-  [Complete basic operations using JavaScript library code in SharePoint](complete-basic-operations-using-javascript-library-code-in-sharepoint.md)
    
 
-  [Complete basic operations using JavaScript library code in SharePoint](complete-basic-operations-using-javascript-library-code-in-sharepoint.md)

Commit message:

Final edit pass through sp-dev-docs (#1145)
* Fixed YAML header

* Updated Develop Overview topic

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Final edit

* Removed md from dev.office.com links

docs/sp-add-ins/sharepoint-net-server-csom-jsom-and-rest-api-index.md, after:

﻿---
title: SharePoint .NET Server, CSOM, JSOM, and REST API index
description: The most frequently used types and objects that are implemented in the .NET server object model and at least one client programming model.
ms.date: 12/13/2017
ms.prod: sharepoint
---


# SharePoint .NET Server, CSOM, JSOM, and REST API index

Use the API index to look up many of the most frequently used types and objects that are implemented in the .NET server object model and at least one client programming model: .NET client-side object model (CSOM), JavaScript object model (JSOM), and/or REST.

This table lists the most frequently used core APIs, which are in most cases based on types from the .NET server implementation. In some cases, types are native to SharePoint client programming, and there is no equivalent .NET server type. In other cases, some but not all possible client programming model implementations of a specific type exist.

> [!NOTE] 
> Before using a REST endpoint URI shown in the table, replace the `…` abbreviation with the path to your SharePoint site; for example `http://<site collection>/<site>/_api/web/lists`.
 
 
## SharePoint API index

||||
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|**API**|**SP.Object/Enumeration (sp.js)**|**REST Endpoint**|
|**AttachmentCollection** **SPAttachmentCollection**| [SP.AttachmentCollection](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/28247ba7-eeaf-e1fc-0609-fb4c39b5d53c%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/lists('<list id>')/items(<item id>)/attachmentfiles`|
|**BasePermissions** **SPBasePermissions**| [SP.BasePermissions object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/40349d51-1068-08c6-8ba4-b23ee58396c4%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**CalendarType** **SPCalendarType**| [SP.CalendarType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/33242ef7-1300-b534-6e8e-c5df1a3df85b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ChangeCollection** **SPChangeCollection**| [SP.ChangeCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/528b8776-f295-77ff-5403-a3556b4f3081%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/getchanges(changequery)`|
|**ChangeSite** **SPChangeSite**| [SP.ChangeSite enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fab86803-f106-97d0-6e97-696c91f210cd%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ClientContext**| [SP.ClientContext object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/662619d3-60b9-92a8-5da7-b481c9b73c79%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/contextinfo`|
|**ContentType** **SPContentType**| [SP.ContentType object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5418f5ad-8a47-3bf7-a8ac-99b10ba04294%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes('<content type id>')`|
|**ContentTypeCollection** **SPContentTypeCollection**| [SP.ContentTypeCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e89cc14d-40ea-5e7a-c3db-efe7e6697445%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes`|
|**SPContext**| [SP.RequestContext object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7bf846f5-e049-ca89-14b7-cf9fed8a82f1%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**EventReceiverDefinition** **SPEventReceiverDefinition**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinition object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7d78e562-fb0e-2e87-aa47-022aa0c5848c%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/eventreceivers`|
|**EventReceiverDefinitionCollection** **SPEventReceiverDefinitionCollection**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinitionCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1a495e76-00ab-4e20-e824-c3612458448d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/eventreceivers(eventreceiverid)`|
|**EventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation** **SPEventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation**| [SP.EventReceiverDefinitionCreationInformation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/38382946-d098-b658-306f-019ee4d0e15e%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**EventReceiverType** **SPEventReceiverType**| [SP.EventReceiverType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/8b4db240-9814-052c-fb67-1e840b610969%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Feature** **SPFeature**| [SP.Feature object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e998df87-9250-17d1-737d-a37092f36ec8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/features(featureid)`|
|**FeatureCollection** **SPFeatureCollection**| [SP.FeatureCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ab02330d-3102-8342-5641-a9a4f6a48772%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/features`|
|**FeatureDefinitionScope** **SPFeatureDefinitionScope**| [SP.FeatureDefinitionScope enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/574f7613-5707-d0ad-dc72-02d639a299ff%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Field** **SPField**| [SP.Field object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d1e50cda-8d5e-47aa-8c78-23b1707dca04%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Field)|
|**FieldCalculated** **SPFieldCalculated**| [SP.FieldCalculated object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/40a5b764-f1be-482b-7779-88e9bbb3f70a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldCalculated)|
|**FieldChoice** **SPFieldChoice**| [SP.FieldChoice object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4521054f-8b98-892a-1e4f-016684e2872f%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiChoice)|
|**FieldCollection** **SPFieldCollection**| [SP.FieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/db532e07-a4e8-d2f8-4ac8-c14de4adc761%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldCollection)|
|**FieldComputed** **SPFieldComputed**| [SP.FieldComputed object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c00fcb21-1aab-6aff-cc9c-a7b1c9cd70f6%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldComputed)|
|**FieldCurrency** **SPFieldCurrency**| [SP.FieldCurrency object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/aef1c982-fb34-3c5c-a6dc-659fd16b32e7%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldNumber)|
|**FieldLink** **SPFieldLink**| [SP.FieldLink object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5dc71a19-3260-20fa-73ed-3de3cde37825%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/contenttypes('<content type id>')/fieldlinks('<field link id>')`|
|**FieldLookupValue** **SPFieldLookupValue**| [SP.FieldLookup object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/275b256e-1192-75f5-b604-ec002448be02%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**FieldMultiChoice** **SPFieldMultiChoice**| [SP.FieldMultiChoice object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a9546014-715a-ed57-993f-bbe237f92880%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiChoice)|
|**FieldMultiLineText** **SPFieldMultiLineText**| [SP.FieldMultiLineText object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/52d130f2-6858-3aa1-88ce-d5b73eccd150%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldMultiLineText)|
|**FieldNumber** **SPFieldNumber**| [SP.FieldNumber object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1c3d179f-21a7-66cc-ea16-3341ea50f395%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldNumber)|
|**FieldText** **SPFieldText**| [SP.FieldText object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ba9a623c-b387-862d-eb1b-eb9d7fd9e04e%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldText)|
|**FieldUrl** **SPFieldUrl**| [SP.FieldUrl object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4eeff596-fa18-d21e-8cc0-fd8463fb5351%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldUrl)|
|**FieldUrlValue** **SPFieldUrlValue**| [SP.FieldUrlValue object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3866f4a6-8fda-586a-ecdc-0c7e7d7ad44b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**FieldUser** **SPFieldUser**| [SP.FieldUser object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/9058425f-b35a-b8a3-d5d1-b2abdbf08576%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/fields('<field id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fields-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FieldLookup)|
|**File** **SPFile**| [SP.File object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/860609d0-d317-41ca-9164-159e522d07cb%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfilebyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>/<file name>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_File)|
|**FileCollection** **SPFileCollection**| [SP.FieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/db532e07-a4e8-d2f8-4ac8-c14de4adc761%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfolderbyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>')/files](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_FileCollection)|
|**Folder** **SPFolder**| [SP.Folder object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/60117e9d-6e9c-8aa9-be9f-a287bc1f547f%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/getfolderbyserverrelativeurl('/<folder name>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/files-and-folders-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Folder)|
|**Form** **SPForm**| [SP.Form object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/8d5429c4-c218-a17e-51ee-1d34914d5550%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/forms('<form id>')`|
|**Group** **SPGroup**| [SP.Group object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/763a2172-1d66-cf41-4121-d26902e6f42a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups(<group id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Group)|
|**GroupCollection** **SPGroupCollection**| [SP.GroupCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c20fa978-7e6c-e9f6-b169-852872b982e6%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_GroupCollection)|
|**Language** **SPLanguage**| [SP.Language object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/072936e7-a23f-f4ea-9c6d-c484b3ba1d25%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**List** **SPList**| [SP.List object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/6d4b1a5d-0600-87d3-757d-360679d937dc%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_List)|
|**ListCollection** **SPListCollection**| [SP.ListCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/abc4fe81-3b0f-dffb-dba5-638c3f58268a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListCollection)|
|**ListDataSource** **SPListDataSource**| [SP.ListDataSource object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/099059ae-2261-e3f5-d8f2-7dbcbadeff21%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**ListItem** **SPListItem**| [SP.ListItem object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3ea127c9-6cba-fe11-2193-ff2dc5c02fbf%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/items(<item id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListItem)|
|**ListItemCollection** **SPListItemCollection**| [SP.ListItemCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/05107bcd-32d5-b2a5-05d2-12152441c1fc%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/items](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ListItemCollection)|
|**ListTemplateType** **SPListTemplateType**| [SP.ListTemplateType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1ccbd999-9415-8449-6b38-aadb9549f384%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Navigation** **SPNavigation**| [SP.Navigation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/22777706-0bf1-ae70-0d99-529e643a2f31%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/navigation`|
|**NavigationNode** **SPNavigationNode**| [SP.NavigationNode object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ec8a4fe0-6996-dba3-f565-4333c5046311%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Principal** **SPPrincipal**| [SP.Principal object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/2d89b994-f692-7b2c-0cd0-be586586d70a%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**SPQuery**||N/A|
|**RecycleBinItem** **SPRecycleBinItem**| [SP.RecycleBinItem object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/4109c8f7-2dbe-95db-a0b2-064da24f4ed9%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RecycleBin(recyclebinitemid)`|
|**RecycleBinItemCollection** **SPRecycleBinItemCollection**| [SP.RecycleBinItemCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/e182d87a-b0be-dc3e-ba9e-69f9148e9366%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RecycleBin`|
|**RegionalSettings** **SPRegionalSettings**| [SP.RegionalSettings object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fcf7b8c8-c595-8646-6d60-7ae27084848d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings`|
|**RoleAssignment** **SPRoleAssignment**| [SP.RoleAssignment object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5dd76bb3-c0a0-a3b8-8263-723fe3d542f8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roleassignments(<principal id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleAssignment)|
|**RoleAssignmentCollection** **SPRoleAssignmentCollection**| [SP.RoleAssignmentCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ec84c668-9eca-45e8-40ae-8d9ac283d3b1%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roleassignments](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleAssignmentCollection)|
|**RoleDefinition** **SPRoleDefinition**| [SP.RoleDefinition object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/a7871c97-07d9-b63f-bdb8-6812adb82be8%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/roledefinitions(<role definition id>)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_RoleDefinition)|
|**RoleType** **SPRoleType**| [SP.RoleType enumeration](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c2c0149f-6b90-9cd5-73d8-5ee3ab9c2ca9%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**SecurableObject** **SPSecurableObject**| [SP.SecurableObject object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/6b9c310e-2a80-9bff-540b-28d54b37c841%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**Site** **SPSite**| [SP.Site object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d3169eb6-882f-180a-2159-34301f66746a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/site`|
|**TimeZone** **SPTimeZone**| [SP.TimeZone object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/5bef51e2-c86c-1821-0462-0749e77f9be3%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings/TimeZones(timzoneid)`|
|**TimeZoneCollection** **SPTimeZoneCollection**| [SP.TimeZoneCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/95b45caa-c88f-2f53-c99e-738859d7bb93%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/RegionalSettings/TimeZones`|
|**User** **SPUser**| [SP.User object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/d36be210-3c1d-c589-e703-1ad66156dc18%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/siteusers(@v)?@v='<login name>'](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_User)|
|**UserCollection** **SPUserCollection**| [SP.UserCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/1bb7bd28-4f19-a8a7-762f-3887c2b8ef7d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/sitegroups(<group id>)/users](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/users-groups-and-roles-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_UserCollection)|
|**Utility** **SPUtility**| [SP.Utilities.Utility object (sp.js)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/57148667-64ff-7fed-8665-03226e70a96b%28Office.15%29.aspx)|N/A|
|**View** **SPView**| [SP.View object (sp.js)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/7b97ecb8-47cc-5c76-231f-81fa4ccae30a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views('<view id>')](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_View)|
|**ViewCollection** **SPViewCollection**| [SP.ViewCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3b0214c7-17b3-152c-78fa-a7a01e8b679a%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ViewCollection)|
|**ViewFieldCollection** **SPViewFieldCollection**| [SP.ViewFieldCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/05cab807-0609-5881-4119-bea2623eb01d%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/lists(guid'<list id>')/views('<view id>')/fields](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/lists-and-list-items-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_ViewFieldCollection)|
|**Web** **SPWeb**| [SP.Web object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/3685fd38-a11d-f07c-c042-13efc6473ba5%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/webs-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_Web)|
|**WebCollection** **SPWebCollection**| [SP.WebCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/fa790853-9ced-0e79-4ce4-9228c336d770%28Office.15%29.aspx)| […/_api/web/webs](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/webs-rest-api-reference%28Office.15%29.aspx#bk_WebCollection)|
|**WebInformation** **SPWebInfo**| [SP.WebInformation object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/006ca57d-50c2-9605-c4ef-fee212aacd54%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/webinfos('<web information id>')`|
|**WebTemplate** **SPWebTemplate**| [SP.WebTemplate object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cd670582-20a3-30b7-20f5-758be6d838da%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/GetAvailableWebTemplates(languageid,includecrosslanguage)/getbyname(templatename)`|
|**WebTemplateCollection** **SPWebTemplateCollection**| [SP.WebTemplateCollection object](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/c6e8b2c8-4f0f-bfda-2626-49c59ef92844%28Office.15%29.aspx)| `…/_api/web/GetAvailableWebTemplates(languageid,includecrosslanguage)`|




## See also
<a name="bk_addresources"> </a>

- [Develop SharePoint Add-ins](develop-sharepoint-add-ins.md)
- [Complete basic operations using SharePoint client library code](complete-basic-operations-using-sharepoint-client-library-code.md)
- [Complete basic operations using JavaScript library code in SharePoint](complete-basic-operations-using-javascript-library-code-in-sharepoint.md)
