docs/business-apps/flow/get-started/set-up-sharepoint-site.md, before:

# Set up your SharePoint site with lists and libraries

In order to successfully complete the getting started tutorials, set up your SharePoint site with the following.

## Projects list

Create a new SharePoint list called *Projects*. Follow the steps below to create a new SharePoint list.

### Create a new list

1. Browse to your SharePoint site.
2. In the command bar, click on *New->List*
3. In the *Create list* panel, enter the following and click *Create* to create the list:

    * **Name:** Projects
    * **Description:** Projects list.
4. You will be automatically redirected to the *Projects* list.
5. Click on *+ Add column* and then select *Person* column type to add an Onwer column to the list.
6. In the *Create a column* panel, enter the following and click *Save* to add the column to the Projects list:

    * **Name:** Owner
    * **Description:** Project owner.
7. The new *Owner* column will now be available in the Projects list.

### Add new project items

Click on *New* button in the command bar and add the following list items:

* Item 1
  * **Title:** Project 1
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

* Item 2
  * **Title:** Project 2
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

* Item 3
  * **Title:** Project 3
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

## Next steps

Now that you have set up your site with the lists and libraries, you can get started working with flows by creating your first flow.

Commit message:

Added images to first getting started flow doc.
Added images to first getting started flow doc.

docs/business-apps/flow/get-started/set-up-sharepoint-site.md, after:

# Set up your SharePoint site with lists and libraries

In order to successfully complete the getting started tutorials, set up your SharePoint site with the following.

## Projects list

Create a new SharePoint list called *Projects*. Follow the steps below to create a new SharePoint list.

### Create a new list

1. Browse to a modern SharePoint site in your Office 365 tenant.

> **Note:** You can choose to use either a modern Team Site or a Communications Site.
  
1. In the command bar, click on *New->List*
2. In the *Create list* panel, enter the following and click *Create* to create the list:

    * **Name:** Projects
    * **Description:** Projects list.
3. You will be automatically redirected to the *Projects* list.
4. Click on *+ Add column* and then select *Person* column type to add an *Owner* column to the list.
5. In the *Create a column* panel, enter the following and click *Save* to add the column to the Projects list:

    * **Name:** Owner
    * **Description:** Project owner.
6. The new *Owner* column will now be available in the Projects list.

### Add new project items

Click on *New* button in the list command bar and add the following list items:

* Item 1
  * **Title:** Project 1
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

* Item 2
  * **Title:** Project 2
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

* Item 3
  * **Title:** Project 3
  * **Owner:** pick a user from people picker

## Next steps

Now that you have set up your SharePoint site with the lists and libraries, you are ready to build your first flow.
