docs/apis/webhooks/lists/overview-sharepoint-list-webhooks.md, before:

# SharePoint list webhooks

The SharePoint list webhooks cover the events corresponding to list item changes for a given SharePoint list or a document library. SharePoint webhooks provide a simple notification pipeline so your application can be aware of changes to a SharePoint list without polling the service.

## Tasks
| Task                                                | HTTP method                                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Create a new subscription](./create-subscription) | `POST    /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions`         |
| [Get subscriptions](./get-subscription)          | `GET     /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions`         |
| [Delete a subscription](./delete-subscription)       | `DELETE  /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions('id')`   |
| [Update a subscription](./update-subscription)     | `PATCH   /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions('id')`   |

## List event types
Notifications will be sent to your application for the following asynchronous list item events in SharePoint:

* ItemAdded
* ItemUpdated
* ItemDeleted
* ItemCheckedOut
* ItemCheckedIn
* ItemUncheckedOut
* ItemAttachmentAdded
* ItemAtttachmentDeleted
* ItemFileMoved
* ItemVersonDeleted
* ItemFileConverted

Synchronous events are not supported in webhooks.

## Additional resources

* [Overview of SharePoint webhooks](../overview-sharepoint-webhooks)

Commit message:

added preview disclaimer and header markdown adjustments

docs/apis/webhooks/lists/overview-sharepoint-list-webhooks.md, after:

# SharePoint list webhooks

>**Note:** SharePoint webhooks is currently in preview and is subject to change. SharePoint webhooks are not currently supported for use in production environments.

The SharePoint list webhooks cover the events corresponding to list item changes for a given SharePoint list or a document library. SharePoint webhooks provide a simple notification pipeline so your application can be aware of changes to a SharePoint list without polling the service.

## Tasks
| Task                                                | HTTP method                                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Create a new subscription](./create-subscription) | `POST    /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions`         |
| [Get subscriptions](./get-subscription)          | `GET     /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions`         |
| [Delete a subscription](./delete-subscription)       | `DELETE  /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions('id')`   |
| [Update a subscription](./update-subscription)     | `PATCH   /_api/web/lists('list-guid')/subscriptions('id')`   |

## List event types
Notifications will be sent to your application for the following asynchronous list item events in SharePoint:

* ItemAdded
* ItemUpdated
* ItemDeleted
* ItemCheckedOut
* ItemCheckedIn
* ItemUncheckedOut
* ItemAttachmentAdded
* ItemAtttachmentDeleted
* ItemFileMoved
* ItemVersonDeleted
* ItemFileConverted

Synchronous events are not supported in webhooks.

## Additional resources

* [Overview of SharePoint webhooks](../overview-sharepoint-webhooks)
